Bill Clearfield  00:03
Somehow everything's upside down.

Speaker 1  00:11
Oh, no, how did you guys? How did I do that be right click and you rotate. Right Click is sometimes I wrote for

Bill Clearfield  00:21
my background,

Speaker 1  00:24
you view profile that is weird, video and see on your head, video settings,

Unknown Speaker  00:40
seeing video,

Bill Clearfield  00:43
mirror, video,

Speaker 1  00:46
that's it. There we go. All right. Well, you two have fun.

Bill Clearfield  00:51
See what else can go wrong. No, I'm still upside down, but that the background is the bright side up

Unknown Speaker  01:07
the hell,

Bill Clearfield  01:11
but just background and fix

Speaker 1  01:16
studio effects that camera Why am I upside down? HD video

Bill Clearfield  01:33
that just makes my wrinkles,

Speaker 1  01:34
that's high def, so that's there's not a rotate or flip, just for low light, portrait lighting mirror, we must have some kind of a flip setup, though mirror,

Bill Clearfield  01:46
yeah, that mirror that

Unknown Speaker  01:53
I'm not seeing that is this, is this?

Bill Clearfield  01:55
This is a new computer. Is

Speaker 1  01:56
this? No, is it? What software are you using? Are you using teams, this is zoom. What are you using Zoom?

Unknown Speaker  02:20
They keep adding stuff to it, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:25
they just leave it the hell alone.

Speaker 1  02:31
Whiteboard scheduler home. That's home. The next thing to do is go out to Google and just say, zoom. Notes, Zoom workflows, reset to default. He could try that unless you probably not, unless you have a bunch of specific settings. I said, this is, this is a new a new system. You haven't done any specific profiles. I haven't used this. I'm still upside down. I don't know why I'm upside down. Upside down. Don't fall anymore, okay. I know your back's hurting my leg. I turn my leg and don't really bend my knee moving forward, that's where it is. I just

Bill Clearfield  03:39
can fix an inverted zoom. Navigate to video settings within the Zoom desktop client, there you'll find an option Mirror my visit, unchecking, this will correct the inverted image

Unknown Speaker  03:49
that corrected your background. Now, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  03:59
Video Settings mirror my I'm

Bill Clearfield  04:24
so for some reason I'm upside down. I don't know why.

Speaker 1  04:32
View speaker gallery, multi, Speaker theme, timers, full screen,

Bill Clearfield  04:47
immersive. How we doing?

Speaker 1  04:51
Definitely still following the numbness, but I'm just wondering,

Bill Clearfield  04:56
so just see if it's step All right, so you're standing,

Speaker 1  05:01
so I'm standing, it's just that my knee will give out if I try to walk. So don't if I don't. Yeah, it's bending my knee, including any weight that's I have no muscle.

Bill Clearfield  05:15
Bill, yeah, I hear you fine.

Speaker 2  05:20
Some reason. Yes, I see you upside down. I don't

Bill Clearfield  05:23
know what. I don't know why.

Speaker 2  05:26
I am not techie enough to figure it out, but let me ask you something. Can you see my slide?

Bill Clearfield  05:34
Yeah, I saw them before, and right now I'm just seeing your name, but yeah, you did run through them before. Hmm,

Unknown Speaker  05:41
that's what I'm trying to figure out.

Bill Clearfield  05:44
You had them on before? Um, yep.

Speaker 2  05:47
So I'm going to turn off my I mean, I can't be turning my video, because if I do that, somehow the slide disappears. So I'm going to put them share again, because it kicks me out.

Bill Clearfield  06:01
Um, they you see me? I'm upside down for I'm upside down for some reason,

Speaker 2  06:06
I know, and I wish I could help you with that. But I just want to know, can you hear me? And can you

Bill Clearfield  06:14
see that I hear you, fine. I hear you fine. And

Speaker 2  06:17
you see the slide right? Yeah, if I move to the next slide.

Bill Clearfield  06:20
There we go. All right, I'm right side up. Okay.

Speaker 2  06:25
You back to normal. I'm back to normal. Awesome. Now. Can you

Bill Clearfield  06:31
see the next slide when I just changed the slide? Not yet. Not yet. We have, we have. We have a little situation here in my office. So, Mike Emmanuel, maybe you can help me. We did. We did a little procedure today, and I did a pudendal block. I don't know. I didn't hit anything that I know of. I didn't get any blood withdrawal. But on my patient's right leg has been numb. I use 2% lidocaine. I use 10 CC's total. And he's his leg is numb from from his hip all the way down to his thigh, so it's wearing off. Yeah, is there, is there any antidote? You know of

Unknown Speaker  07:20
maybe some people, yes, I do have

Unknown Speaker  07:23
more reaction to the medication. Yeah, longer time to wear off. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:30
it's been about an hour, right? So Bill, yeah,

Speaker 2  07:34
if he has it sounds to me like an allergic reaction to this medication, as someone else mentioned, um, whatever that is. It's obviously a toxin to which he's reacting, and you could have neutralized it immediately with an either I am injection of ascorbate or, um, even for him taking a therapeutic dose orally, that's what I'm going to discuss briefly today.

Speaker 1  07:56
No, it's not okay. I can walk. All right. All right. Well, it's coming back, but I don't want you to fall No, I think I'm okay, as long as I walk like when I jump in. All

Bill Clearfield  08:09
right? I'm gonna help him out. Lior, so I'm gonna let you.

Speaker 1  08:14
Yeah, I think I can you sure I walk like, this is Lori still here. I was, yeah, I can walk, like this. Like how thin I need you too much, yeah, don't fall. Don't fall in the barn. You got your teeth, yep, yep, yep, I'm good. I can walk. You sure, yeah, all right, all right. I had your phone number, yeah.

Speaker 2  08:39
How far Where are you from Shallenberger from? Where from Frank from Shallenberger?

Bill Clearfield  08:46
About 50 miles.

Speaker 2  08:48
Because if somebody could go and get the pure seed product, and I will tell you what he needs to do, but it will neutralize it pretty much immediately.

Bill Clearfield  08:57
All right. Well, I

Speaker 2  09:03
uh, anyway, if that doesn't resolve tomorrow, that's what you'll need to do. Well,

Bill Clearfield  09:08
if it doesn't resolve tomorrow, I'm in big trouble. So it's, it was, it was lidocaine,

Speaker 2  09:14
yes, but anybody can develop a reaction to anything at any given time.

Bill Clearfield  09:19
You know, I think I must have gotten in a nerve or a blood vessel.

Unknown Speaker  09:27
It still can neutralize it, all right? Well, hopefully it will dissipate,

Bill Clearfield  09:33
yeah, well, it's, it's been getting better. So he felt getting off the table. It's been getting better, and he was able to sort of limp out now. So

Unknown Speaker  09:43
for some people have longer time to wear out, maybe longer time.

Bill Clearfield  09:51
So, yeah. So anyway, it's always, always, uh. So, so is it just me, or are there things going on in the universe that are sort of inexplicable

Unknown Speaker  10:05
all the time and every day? Well,

Bill Clearfield  10:09
no, I had two, two front office people quit. My bookkeeper quit. And then I, you know, I'm a little always a little late doing my taxes, my my accountant fired me with for without a reason. Oh, wow, that's, that's, I was away, that's, that's all, all since I got back yesterday. So either I'm snake bitten or there's something going on in the universe. I don't know what it is.

Speaker 2  10:38
You've been going in the Universe since the plandemic, and everything is still blamed on that and unfortunately, different culture today, but that too shall pass hopefully. Well, let's hope so, or we just have to readjust ourselves, unfortunately, to this new norm, which I do not embrace. So so how many people do you have that registered to tonight's webinar?

Bill Clearfield  11:13
Well, we they just kind of sign in the last week we had 75 so usually we get anywhere from 40 to 70. We've had as we've we've had as many as 105

Speaker 2  11:35
and you offer them also recorded versions later,

Bill Clearfield  11:38
yeah. Well, what we do is we put it on our website, and then, depending on what the topic is, we'll, we'll put it on we have a YouTube channel. Also we put it on there. It depends on on what the topic is, if it's anything to do with cannabis, because, you know, we have a lot of cannabis people, we don't put it on YouTube. If it's anything that has to do with ivermectin and cancer, we don't put that on YouTube. Thank you. You know, so the land of the free, the land of the free and the home of the brave right,

Speaker 2  12:13
even ozone, you can't even put that on YouTube anymore.

Bill Clearfield  12:17
So, so yeah, stuff like that is kind of a, kind of a no no. So,

Speaker 3  12:25
which is on at least the first hour and 45 minutes, is on YouTube. It's on Dr Halas channel, though not yours apparently.

Bill Clearfield  12:36
Well, that's Dr losses channel with the

Speaker 3  12:40
that's that's different than ours. Yeah, last week was incredible. I mean, it was over the top good. It's too bad that last hour and 15 minutes there was a lot of incredible information in there that that's not included in the online version.

Bill Clearfield  12:59
Well, we just, I see, I was away last week, so our version hasn't been, has just got, just finished rendering this morning, I see, yeah, so, and I'll put in the chat, you know where, where you can find it. And so, YouTube is actually under my name. It's Clearfield medical, uh, group, right? And the other, the other one is aosrd.org so I'll put it in there. Okay, so, Dr Nario, you're got you as a co host,

Speaker 4  13:36
yep, I'm in there. Okay. Did you get my emails?

Bill Clearfield  13:42
Yeah, I got them. It's been a crazy day. I just I did, just now, the guy just left. I did a I did a P shot, and I did a pudental block, and his whole right leg became numb and he felt getting off the table. And he's a big guy, and he was here for like an hour, and it's finally coming back.

Speaker 4  14:03
Oh, it was just, yeah. It was just too much on that area.

Bill Clearfield  14:10
I've been doing this for 10 years. I never had that. Never had it. This happened once.

Speaker 4  14:14
We always have an outlier. How about that? Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  14:18
Well, I could have, I could have done without the outlier part of it, yeah, that kind of, that kind of outlier I don't need.

Speaker 4  14:32
Hey, that's, uh, what's keeping you awake every day, the little changes, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  14:36
you know, certain things you don't need.

Unknown Speaker  14:41
You don't handle stress that well, you

Bill Clearfield  14:44
know, I'll get to the point where I don't want to. I just spent, I just spent the whole week with the two two year old and a four

Speaker 4  14:50
year old. So, oh, yeah, you tell me you needed a vacation after that. Now

Bill Clearfield  14:55
I need a vacation. So, yeah, yeah. So next week, if anybody's in the San Francisco area, I will be speaking at the androgen society. It's That's Dr Morgan tellers group. So we're moving up in the world. I'll be speaking on clinical applications of testosterone for women. So usually what we do before we start is, well, while we have folks coming in, we have Dr Nario, who's been taking the integrative medicine fellowship from Dr Weil at the University of Arizona. Is that what it is in Arizona State? Nope, down there, down there somewhere. Yep, down there. We're down there where it's hot.

Unknown Speaker  15:46
It is super

Bill Clearfield  15:47
so we get, we get a tip of the week and what? One of these days, I might have to go through all the videos and compile them all so we can get a little like, sort of mini textbook of integrative medicine compilation, right? Yeah, Pile them all. So what's our tip of the week this week? All right?

Speaker 4  16:04
So our Tip of the Week today is when we think of chelation. We often think of synthetic agents like EDTA or GMSA, but garlic. So this is something that we've been working on. We have, we're in the botanical section now. It's a familiar food has surprising, well documented chelating properties. It doesn't just detoxify, it binds and removes heavy metals like lead, mercury and cambium, with fewer side effects and greater nutritional safety. There's a landmark study that I want to put out there for you guys. It's published in basic and clinical pharmacology and toxicology. 117 male industrial workers with chronic lead exposure, and participants were randomized to receive either garlic tablets, 3.6 grams per day versus deep penicillamine. So it's a pharmaceutical chelator or placebo. After four weeks of the study, the garlic groups, blood levels drop significantly from about 20 grams per deciliter to 12 grams per deciliter, on par with a drug group, but with fewer adverse effects, so like nausea or skin reactions and are even more notable so garlic improved symptoms such As headaches irritability and digestive issues related to lead toxicity. And why does garlic do that? The power of garlic lies in its sulfur based compounds, especially allicin or s, l, cysteine or sec and die Alice disulfide. So these are molecules containing style groups, so the same chemical hooks using drug key leaders to bind metals and escort them out through the urine. So crucially, garlic does this without stripping essential minerals like zinc or calcium, which is common when we do EDTA, which is a major limitation of many pharmaceutical key leaders. So now, people often ask, can I just eat garlic? Right? You can but to match the chelating dose, using the it's the canoe study. That's what we call it, you need to eat six to 10 raw clothes per day. That's not practical or or even tolerable for for most also, Allison degrades with heat and time. So cooking garlic greatly reduces the potency. Instead, aged garlic extract or standardized tablets at 1.2 to 3.6 grams per day, provides reliable dosing, better absorption and greater clinical consistency. And we always talk about Yes, like natural killator, such as cilantro chlorella, but garlic actually has stronger human data. Cilantro and florella can mobilize metals, but they don't always bind them tightly, which may lead to redistribution, a theoretical risk where toxic agents can get moved but not excreted. So garlic, especially in aged or all based forms, is safer, more stable and better tolerated over long term use. So the final takeaway here, whether you are supporting detox in postmenopausal women, so we handle that in the hormone world, they release lead from their bones in our Of course, and also managing chronic low level exposures. Garlic is a gentle, effective chelator that strips the body without stripping essential nutrients, making it an ideal addition to integrative detox protocols. All right, that's our tip for the week.

Bill Clearfield  19:30
We go, there's there's our integrative Tip of the Week. Now about aged garlic, aged garlic extract, which you

Speaker 4  19:39
can use it too. But yeah, the studies were just plain, not even aged coyote garlic. So that even is useful, then it's cheaper, because aged coyote garlic is a little more expensive.

Bill Clearfield  19:50
Yeah, I was always taught that the the aged garlic was wasn't quite as as effective,

Speaker 4  19:58
yeah. I mean, yeah, in terms of chelation. I mean, aged coyote cardiovascular benefits are very prominent in terms of the benefits.

Unknown Speaker  20:08
Are you creating aged garlic with black garlic?

Speaker 4  20:10
No, that's different. It's aged coyote garlic.

Speaker 3  20:13
Yeah, okay, I just want to be sure that that yes,

Unknown Speaker  20:17
yeah, that's, that's a good point.

Bill Clearfield  20:21
Okay, all right. So thank you. Thank you again. Dr Nario, for another scintillating, exciting, I look forward to these so. So tonight, everybody, we have a special guest, Lior share, S, H, E, R, I hope I said that right. You did. She is the founder and executive director of the vitamin C Institute for Clinical Integration. It's a global non profit dedicated to advancing the science and clinical application and translational education of high dose vitamin C therapy. So we hear a lot about vitamin C therapy. We're going to get, we're going to get the real skinny here. Leo is a an attorney, and we won't hold that against her, because she's here, she's like, like, like our friend Ross Pelton, I take it. You're a recovering attorney. Ross is a recovering pharmacist. I don't know if you know him or not. Lior is a thought leader in redox medicine and integrative Clinical Strategy. She's widely recognized as the leading authority on pharmacological use of sodium ascorbate. And you're going to make it. You're going to tell us the difference between a score. Between ascorbic acid and ascorbate correct? We're going to get to it absolutely in cancer, chronic infections, immune dysregulation, regenerative cell therapies and longevity medicine. She's a sought after speaker and educator. She's a multi disciplinary background and biotechnology, healthcare innovation and law, translational molecular science and translating it into practical systems based therapies across integrative, functional and regenerative disciplines. She's the author of the C word conspiracy, cover up and controversy and expose of and revealing the suppressed therapeutic potential of vitamin C. She directs an annual symposium called see posium, CME, accredited international conference, and has established a redox focused training platform, including a 16 hour life certification course. It's clinical framework focuses on redox targeted strategies to restore mitochondrial function, modulate immunity, improve outcomes across a broad therapeutic spectrum. So and I'd like to add that yours invited me to present at her conference concerning vitamin C and its effect on hormones, and that will be in October. So without further ado, I give you forgive her. She didn't know what she was doing at the time. Attorney Leo shear

Unknown Speaker  23:15
she didn't seem to like

Speaker 2  23:18
Well, I appreciate such a warm introduction. Dr Clearfield, and good evening everyone. It is a pleasure to welcome you to this very important discussion, and I'd like to extend my sincere gratitude to Dr Clearfield for hosting and supporting tonight's session. We're here tonight to examine a molecule that is both foundational and persistently misunderstood ascorbate, commonly referred to as vitamin C, though its clinical identity and therapeutic scope extend far beyond its conventional classification as a simple antioxidant or anti scurvy Vitamin too often, Vitamin C is dismissed as basic nutrient, important for preventing scurvy, but little else in reality, ascorbate functions as pleiotropic molecule, a redox modulator, enzymatic co factor and cellular catalyst to support over 150 metabolic and by synthetic pathways, including those essential to hormone syntheses, immune regulation, collagen production and mitochondrial energy generation, and that is just the tip of the iceberg. A critical clear clarification to make from the outset is this ascorbate, although interchangeable with ascorbic acid, often even though the terms are frequently conflated in literature and clinical settings, this long standing confusion has led to important misunderstandings around tolerability, pharmacokinetics and therapeutic outcomes. We'll explore these fundamentals and clinically significant differences in greater detail later in this lecture. It is worth noting that the original vitamin C therapy protocols developed by the orthomolecular pioneers such as Dr Frederick klenner and Robert Cathcart relied exclusively on sodium ascorbate their work laid the foundation for modern redox and integrative medicine, and it is time for us to return to the biochemical precision that made those protocols so effective. Now, before we dive into the science, a quick but very important note on disclaimers, this presentation is hosted by vitamin C Institute for Clinical Integration, vcici and proudly sponsored by pure C a leader in professional grade sodium ascorbate formulations. Vcici is a nonprofit educational institute committed to advancing clinical knowledge and translational research in vitamin C therapy. Our mission is to provide healthcare professionals with a scientific foundation clinical protocols and integrational strategies necessary to apply a score bit safely and effectively across a broad range of therapeutic modalities. Please note that this content present content presented today is intended solely for educational informational purposes. It does not constitute medical or legal advice, and may include references to third party sources, sources or products that are not affiliated with VC ICICI, we strongly encourage all healthcare providers to apply independent clinical judgment, remain in compliance with applicable regulations and evaluate any off label uses according to their professional standards and scope of practice. Additionally, while the session may be recorded for the future educational use by the host platform, we respectfully ask that participants do not independently record, distribute or capture screenshots and audio without prior written permission from vcici. Finally, any statements made during the session have not been evaluated by FDA and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. With this out of the way, let's begin as we transition into the core material, I'd like to begin with a brief overview of today's learning objectives. This session is designed to provide a clear physiological and mechanistic framework for understanding a score based catalytic role in restoring balance resilience and therapeutic responsiveness, particularly in the context of integrative, functional and regenerative care. By the end of this presentation, you should be able to articulate the foundational role of ascorbate in maintaining cellular homeostasis, supporting key biochemical pathways and regulating multiple physiological systems identify clinical patterns in which unresolved oxidative stress and insufficient ascorbate contribute to dysfunction across endocrine, metabolic, neurologic and immune systems. Explain how ascorbate depletion disrupts core processes involving in cellular repair, signaling and immune regulation, with direct relevance to chronic and degenerative conditions, differentiate between ascorbic acid and sodium ascorbate highlighting, and by the way, the short for it is aa and SA, So highlighting sa enhanced bioavailability, redox stability and clinical tolerability across delivery methods outline practical strategies for maintaining optimal physiological ascorbate levels now refer a lot to these optimal physiological ascorbate levels, which is somewhat analogous to optimal hormone levels through oral protocols and introduce integration points within broader functional and regenerative care plans. The session is intended as scientific foundation, foundation for clinical application. Now for those of you seeking deeper clinical applications, including detailed protocols, sequencing and stacking strategies, safety considerations, potential contraindications and patient specific integration. These are covered comprehensively in our extended curriculum. So let's move on, and this slide focuses, or this folk, this focus of this presentation is really to underscore a critical shift in clinical thinking.

Bill Clearfield  29:43
We're not seeing any Lee or we're not seeing any slides. So

Speaker 2  29:48
did you see the previous slides? No,

Speaker 4  29:52
okay, Dr Bill, it's showing up on our end. I don't know if it's on yours.

Speaker 2  29:56
Okay, how about now?

Unknown Speaker  30:00
Yes, we can see

Bill Clearfield  30:01
it. Oh, you can see it, okay,

Speaker 2  30:05
being bumped because I was in share mode. So if something happens again, please alert me. Okay, okay, um, so we missed all the the initial three slides, but I hope that you heard me, um, but the more important slides are coming up, so the focus of this presentation is to underscore a critical shift in clinical thinking, a score bait is no longer an adjuvant. It is a biological catalyst. It activates and amplifies diverse therapeutic strategies and underpins core physiological processes that determine clinical successes. We're not here tonight to dissect every molecular mechanism that's the purpose of our comprehensive VCI service, VCI certification course, launching on August 4 as a four part physician level webinar that training spans the full clinical spectrum from infectious disease and regenerative medicine to oncology hormone optimization and mental health, including protocol design, sequencing and therapeutic strategies. But tonight session takes a focused approach and will explore the science rational rationale for four bit central role in recalibrating hormone signaling, restoring mitochondrial function, enhancing metabolic resilience and amplifying integrative therapies through redox regulation. In this webinar, we will address one of the most clinically neglected imperatives, the maintenance of optimal physiological ascorbate levels. This is not a peripheral concern. It's a foundation of terrain preparation, the biochemical readiness that determines whether any intervention can succeed. When ascorbate is deficient or depleted, the biological terrain is compromised, healing is delayed. Hormonal signaling become dysregulated. Redox balance collapses and inflammation persist in states of oxidative stress, whether from chronic infection, environmental toxicity or metabolic overload, some clinical ascorbate depletion becomes a silent but significant barrier to recovery, yet few clinicians assess it, and even fewer recognize this, the cascading impact, including impaired collagen remodeling, hormonal resistance, delayed tissue repair, neuroinflammation, redox imbalance and reduce metabolic output. This is not about vitamin C as a supplement. This is about a score bit as a molecular catalyst, the prerequisite for unlocking the efficacy of your most advanced therapies, from hormone hormone optimization to high dose IVC to ozone, exosomes, peptides and regenerative biologics. So let's begin by exploring the foundational science behind what we call the ascorbate advantage, and how it can transform both your practice and your patient outcome. Let's begin by grounding the discussion and one of the most well documented yet clinically underutilized role of vitamin C, its involvement in hormone biosynthesis and endocrine regulation. Ascorbate is essential for steroid o Genesis and catecholamine catecholamine synthesis. It functions as a cofactor for several hydroxylation reactions, including the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine via dopamine beta hydroxylase and the biosynthesis of quarter cortisol and sex hormones without sufficient ascorbate. These pathways become rate limited, particularly under a stress or increase metabolic demand by the role. But the role of a score beta extends beyond syntheses. It also regulates redox balance within endocrine tissue, including the adrenal glands, thyroid, pituitary and reproductive organs. These systems are highly sensitive to oxidative stress, which disrupts intracellular signaling and impairs hormonal output and feedback loops, one often overlooked aspect is the ascorbate enhanced hormone receptor sensitivity, even when serum hormone levels are normal. Receptor resistance can blunt physiological response, something we frequently observe in cases of adrenal burnout, burnout, thyroid resistance or estrogen dominance. Ascorbate helps re establish receptor responsiveness by restoring redox, tone and membrane function. Importantly, Vitamin C is rapidly depleted in the presence of chronic stress, infections, toxin exposure or inflammatory states, all of which are common in patients with complex endocrine dysfunction. This depletion contributes to downward spiral of hormone hormonal resistance, metabolic instability and persistent fatigue. Clinically restoring physiological levels of ascorbate is not peripheral intervention. It becomes critical co therapy and hormone optimization detoxification protocol and adrenal or HPA access recovery. This sets the stage for how we approach hormone related conditions, not just with hormone replacement, but with terrain preparation, where scorpid plays a central role in restoring endocrine resilience and system wide and adaptive adaptability. Moving to the next slide, one of the most clinically consequential ways ascorbate supports the endocrine system is through its multi axis regulatory role across adrenal thyroid and reproductive hormones network. Let's explore each one of these axes in turn, beginning with the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands contain the highest concentration of vitamin C per gram of tissue in the human body, a clear evolutionary signal of its critical role. Ascorbate is essential for the enzymatic conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine via dopamine, beta hydroxylasa directly supports the synthesis of epinephrine and cortisol, two central hormones in stress response. Therefore, it is not a coincidence that ascorbate is often referred to as stress responsive molecule. In fact, Dr Paul Merrick called it stress vitamin or stress hormone during periods of acute or chronic stress, intracellular ascorbate stores are rapidly depleted without adequate replenishment. We commonly absorb disrupted hypothalamic pituary adrenal or HPA Axis function reduce stress resilience and impaired mitochondrial output and dysregulated inflammatory signaling. Now, Vitamin C is not something that we can accumulate or store in our body. It needs to be constantly. The UpTake needs to be gradual and constant to maintain these ever fluctuating levels. So clinically, this pattern reflects what we refer to as elevated allostatic load, what I referred above the cumulative burden of stress on the body regulatory system. Allostatic load is not just theoretical. It is measurable contributor to wide range of chronic diseases, including metabolic syndrome, depression and anxiety, autoimmune disorders, fatigue syndromes, neurodegenerative conditions, cardiovascular disease and cancer in these contexts, restoring and sustaining bioavailable ascorbate becomes a clinical cornerstone, not only for the adrenal support, but for buffering the physiological strain driving systemic dysfunction. And these are calls that I get regularly from providers that are struggling maintaining those physiological levels with their critically ill patients, especially those that are treating cancer. So turning to the thyroid gland, vitamin C influent, is often overlooked, but highly significant. Ascorbate assists in the conversion of thyroxin, also known as t4 into active form t3 and helps reduce levels of reverse t3 which is biologically inactive metabolite that can interfere with healthy thyroid function, especially during stress or inflammation in autoimmune thyroid diseases, particularly Hashimoto thyroiditis, ascorbate demonstrates immune modulating effects, including measurable reductions in thyroid peroxidase TPO and thyroglobulin TJ antibodies. These outcomes are believed to result from

Bill Clearfield  39:40
Leor I accidentally muted you.

Speaker 2  39:46
Okay, sorry, where did you lose me? Did we? Did we cover the

Bill Clearfield  39:51
antibody one sentence, just the last sentence?

Speaker 2  39:53
Okay, yeah. So antibodies, okay, so these outcomes are believed to result from redox sensitive pathways that support enzymatic function, dampen oxidative stress and promote immune tolerance, ultimately contributing to improve thyroid stability and reduced autoimmune activity. Lastly, within the reproductive hormone access, vitamin C plays an essential role in maintaining mitochondrial health, a prerequisite for steroid hormone production, including estrogen, progesterone and testosterone. Ascorbate also protects hormone receptors from oxidative damage and supports redox sensitive signaling pathways. These functions are particularly relevant in conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome, perimenopause and male androgen decline. Clinically optimal. Ascorbate levels are associated with improved hormonal balance, enhanced fertility, reduced oxidative stress and ovarian and testicular tissue and better symptoms control in age related endocrine transitions, and it's important to remember these are three systems, the adrenal glands, the thyroid and the reproductive organs. They're in the interdependent oxidative stress and inflammation disrupt disrupt your communication and function. So replenishing a score bit helps re establish balance across all three clinically, we often see improvement in mood, libido, fertility, metabolic function and overall vitality, even in cases where conventional hormone therapy has reached a plateau. In summary, ascorbate is not just a supportive therapy. It is central regulatory molecule in endocrine repair, hormone responsiveness and systemic recovery. As we shift into menopausal transition, ascorbate becomes even more clinically significant, particularly as ovarian hormone production decline and systemic oxidative stress increases, first consider collagen loss and reduced tissue elasticity, which many patients experience during this time. Estrogen plays a key role in maintaining collagen, but Vitamin C is required, is required for its syntheses and stabilization, ensuring optimal ascorbate levels can help preserve skin integrity, vascular flexibility and connective tissue strength throughout this transition. Next, bone health becomes growing concern during menopause, this decline in estrogen contributes to increased bone turnover and the progression towards osteopenia and osteoporosis. Vitamin C supports osteoblast activity and mitigates oxidative stress and bone tissue playing a protective role in skeletal integrity. Vitamin C also supports the biosynthesis of mood regulating neurotransmitters, including including dopamine, serotonin and others, which can be disrupted during perimenopause by restoring intracellular ascorbate, we often see improvement in mood stability, cognitive clarity and sleep quality. Now, in our certification course, there is a large segment on mental health, cognitive clarity and sleep quality. Emerging evidence suggests that ascorbate may also modulate vasomotor symptoms such as hot flashes and night sweats. This is likely due to its influence on vascular tone, nitric oxide regulation and thermal regulatory control under oxidative stress. And it's important to note, as the ovaries reduce output, the adrenal glands assume the role of producing estrogen precursors. This increased endocrine demand places a higher burden on the adrenal system, and by extension, on a score based reserves, adequate and sustained optimal levels are critical, not only for steroid Genesis, but also for buffering the oxidative cost of this hormonal compensation, clinically supporting vitamin c status during Paramount perimenopause and menopause contribute to greater tissue resilience, improved emotional and metabolic stability, reduced oxidative damage and more adaptive and graceful hormonal transition. For these reasons, maintaining optimal vitamin c status is not merely supportive, as I mentioned before, it is foundational requirement for navigating the menopausal transition with physiological resilience and therapeutic success. Now, this slide introduces a core concept that under underlies much of what we've discussed, and that what is called redox balance. The body constantly negotiates a balance between oxidants, primarily reactive oxygen species, or our OS, and antioxidants, which depend a defend against their damage. Ros are not inherently harmful. They're produced continuously through normal metabolic activity and are necessary for cell signaling. But when they rise unchecked due to chronic stress, inflammation, toxic exposure or hormonal disruption, the result is oxidative stress, or increased and excessive oxidative stress, which drives dysfunction across multiple systems. To buffer this, we rely on two main antioxidant defense systems, endogenous system, which is the body produced internally, including including glorified catalase and superoxide dismutase and exogenous antioxidant obtained for food and supplements such as vitamin E, plant polyphenols and notably Vitamin C. Vitamin C is unique because it contributes to both systems. It acts as direct ROS Scavenger, and has the ability to scavenge ROS and actually do repair if the damage is not too severe to the tissue, and it helps regenerate other antioxidants, including glutathione and vitamin E. This dual role makes it essential, not just for maintaining redox balance, but for restoring it under stress, a distinction that becomes critical when treating patients with hormonal dysregulation, chronic inflammation or degenerative conditions, or even more critical, when you have acute infections, whether it's COVID or sepsis, this is why redox balance isn't an abstract concept. It's a clinical target, and ascorbate plays a central role in modulating it. Now that we defined redox balance, let's take a look what happens when it breaks down, and why it matters so profoundly in hormone therapy and chronic disease, when oxidative stress becomes chronic, either due to excess ROS or diminish antioxidant capacity. Usually, it's both, because one drives the other, it initiates a cascade of cellular dysfunction, DNA damage, protein misfolding, lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial exhaustion, exhaustion. Clinically, we see the impact in patient who present with fatigue that doesn't resolve. With rest, hormone resistant, even with appropriate replacement or optimization, thyroid dysfunction, autoimmune flares and mood instability, poor detoxification, delayed wound healing, elevated inflammatory markers, cardiovascular dysfunctions, including endothelial damage and dyslipidemia, and in more advanced states, progression towards cancer initiation in tumor microenvironment, instability, often these patients exhibit at Constellation of persistent, non specific symptoms that defy standard diagnosis or treatments. So this is where vitamin C becomes a clinical tool, not just wellness supplement. It supports, as I mentioned before, mitochondrial functions, regenerates key antioxidants like glutathione and vitamin E, and neutralizes free radicals before irreversible damage occurs. And I talk, you know, in our certification course, we bring quite a bit of literature to light, case studies, published studies and and examples I mean, and I will never forget the one when I had a surgeon call me

Speaker 2  48:56
with a problem that he just performed the surgery on. It was a breast surgery, breast reduction. I was a secondary surgery, surgery on that patient, and she was about to lose her nipples. They were getting black and necrotic, and so it's all about also timing. And remember what I said, maintaining those physiological levels. So had this patient been prepared for the surgery. It would have unlikely to have happened, because that's what we discussed, the preparation of terrain, because any kind of a medical intervention, it causes increased ROS and therefore depletion of ascorbate levels. So timing and the severity of damage is very critical, also very relevant when we talk about sepsis in in one of our conferences, both Dr Paul Merrick and Pierre Corey discussed it. Timing is everything. So even more critically, I think I mentioned my man, not ascorbit modulates redox signaling itself, regulating hormone receptor sensitivity, cytokine expression and gene transcription pathways involving in repair, detoxification and immune surveillance. So if we don't directly address oxidative stress, particularly in complex treatment resistant, hormone or chronic disease cases we risk over looking the upstream mechanism that may be sabotaging patient progress. That is why, in the next slide, we'll explore how strategic ascorbate integration, both oral NIV can re establish redox balance and significantly improve therapeutic outcome. Now I emphasize here this combined approach, and I talk about it extensively in that course, because without the one, if you just most providers just want to focus on IV, but as you delve deep into the science, you will find that even with some of the most acute infections, you don't necessarily need to immediately go to IV. In fact, you can often neutralize whether it's viral or bacterial infections, sometimes as quickly as one hour, with pharmacological levels and protocols of oral ascorbate. So let's now zoom into the mitochondria, where ascorbate plays a pivotal role, yet often under recognized role in clinical recovery and resilience, as the powerhouse of the cell and the primary site of ATP production, mitochondria are both producers and targets of reactive oxygen species, and while a certain baseline of ros is necessary for cellular signaling, excess oxidative stress, especially in chronic inflammation, infection and toxin exposure, leads to mitochondrial collapse, impaired energy metabolism and redox driven inflammation, ascorbate is uniquely positioned to defend and restore mitochondrial function. It accumulates inside the mitochondria where it scavengers ROS protects lipid membranes, support electron transport and regenerates critical antioxidants, as I mentioned before, both glutathione and vitamin E. Now when we talk about the cancer care. We get it into it a little bit deeper, but here we're just kind of providing an overview clinically mitochondrial dysfunction, essential to fatigue and fibromyalgia, neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson and Alzheimer's, cognitive decline and mood disorders such as depression and anxiety, hormonal dysregulation and metabolic inflexibility, muscle wasting and poor exercise recovery and age related macular degeneration and other vision loss syndromes. And importantly, these same tissue, brain endocrine organs, retina and heart have the highest mitochondrial density and the highest vulnerability to oxidative stress. And when I covered age related vision loss, I bring some very important examples and background that I have specifically in AMD and what we've done to often reverse or hold the progression, especially of the dry stage, of this vicious binding disease. So when we restore Scorpio therapeutic, not just nutritional levels, we protect mitochondrial integrity and recalibrate energy metabolism at the root. This isn't just about boosting ATP, it's about restoring function in the tissue that define quality of life, as we just seen, mitochondria are more than just energy producers. They serve as central hubs for cellular signaling, metabolic integration and immune regulation, beyond ATP production, mitochondria governs how macronutrients are metabolized, including glucose oxidation, beta oxidation, on fatty acids and amino acid catabolism. They also influence inflammatory tone, redox balance, steroidogenesis and apoptotic signaling, all of which are essential in maintaining systemic homeostasis when mitochondrial function is compromised, whether by oxidative stress, environmental toxin, micronutrient insufficiency, chronic infections or aging. We observe downstream of consequences such as insulin resistance, neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, chronic fatigue syndromes, hormonal dysregulation, impaired tissue repair and immune suppression, and this is where ascorbate becomes clinically indispensable, not just as a free radical Scavenger, but as a direct mitochondrial cofactor and redox regulator. And its roles include stabilizing mitochondrial membranes, protecting components of the electron spot transport chain from iOS mediated damage, recycling glutathione and maintaining NAD NADH redox balance, supporting adaptive redox signaling required for metabolic flexibility and stress resilience. So in short, vitamin C supports mitochondrial integrity and signaling plasticity, which are foundational for endocrine balance, immune coordination and metabolic restoration. This brings us to the next layer of resist discussion, how ascorbate regulates metabolic function at the systemic level, influencing nutrient handling, insulin sensitivity and inflammatory resolution across organ systems. So let's explore that. So as we begin to exploring this critical role of vitamin C in the brain health, we turn first into the central nervous system where ascorbate exerts profound but often clinically unrecognized effects. After the adrenal glands, the brain holds the second highest concentration of vitamin C per gram of tissue in the human body. This alone signals its indispensable role in neurological health and function. Vitamin C is one of the few antioxidants capable of crossing the blood brain barrier, where it's actively transported into neurons via sodium dependent vitamin C transporter two, or is known as VCT two, once inside, it impacts the multifaceted. I'm sorry, its impact is multifaceted, supporting neurotransmitter syntheses, protecting against oxidative damage and regulating neuronal signaling. First, it's essential in the syntheses of key neurotransmitters, including dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin, all of which regulate mood, attention, memory and emotional processing. These mechanisms are clinically relevant across a wide range of neuro psychiatric and neurodegenerative conditions, including depression and anxiety, schizophrenia psychosis, where glutamate toxicity, redox imbalance and low ascorbate levels contribute to pathophysiology, PTSD and trauma related dysregulation, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, post COVID, neuro inflammation, cognitive decline associated with chronic oxidative stress or hormonal shift in these states, oxidative burden, mitochondrial dysfunction and neurotransmitter imbalance coverage converge when creating a feedback loop that perpetuates this dysfunction so one leads to another, and the vicious cycle continues and again, Vitamin C is the catalyst that can interrupt this so it's uniquely positioned to interrupt the cycle supporting both neuro protection and neuro repair. And again, it's not simply about avoiding deficiency. It's about achieving physiologically optimal and functional levels that are sustainable, that meet the metabolic demands of a stressed or dysregulated brain, which especially true in cases of trauma, neuro inflammation or endocrine brain axis disruption. As we zoom out of the brain and endocrine system, let's examine how ascorbate influence metabolic health and systemic at the systemic levels,

Speaker 2  58:46
vitamin C functions as direct cofactor for carnitine biosynthesis, a molecule essential for transporting long chain fatty acids into mitochondrial for oxidation Without adequate ascorbate carnitine syntheses decline fatty acid transport is impaired, and mitochondrial energy production suffers. This makes vitamin C indispensable for fat metabolism and ATP generation, particularly in insulin resistant, inflamed or energy deficient states beyond energy metabolism, ascorbate modulates redox sensitive signaling pathways involving an insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake. It also protects pancreatic beta cells and insulin receptors from oxidative injury, both of which are highly susceptible to ROS metabolism, metabolic disorder at therapeutic levels, ascorbate helps mitigate the core features of metabolic syndrome, including visceral adiposity, visceral adiposity, insulin resistance, hyper triglyceridemia and Chronic systemic inflammation. It also plays a role suppressing advanced glycation, end products, age, harmful compounds that accelerate vascular aging and metabolic decline. So growing clinical evidence support vitamin C role in managing type two diabetes, dyslipidemia, non alcoholic, fatty liver disease and obesity associated cognitive dysfunction in each of these, the pathology involves oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and metabolic inflexibility. So you're beginning to see a pattern here, all of which are targetable through sustained by available ascorbate therapy. Now that we've established vitamin C pivotal role in redox regulation, endocrine signaling and mitochondrial integrity and metabolic health, it's essential to highlight a key clinical insight that remain underappreciated even among the most experienced practitioners, not all forms of vitamin C are clinically equivalent, and this is what Dr Clearfield started in the beginning. Am I going to cover it? This is probably the most critically misunderstood and misapplied therapy, even as I said in the most experienced practitioners understanding that biochemical and therapeutic distinction between ascorbic acid and sodium ascorbate is essential for optimizing efficacy, minimizing adverse effects and improving outcomes, especially in patients with chronic illnesses, metabolic syndrome, gi sensitivity or elevated oxidative stress, which Most of us experience pretty much on a daily basis. This distinguished distinction becomes especially critical as we move beyond general nutritional support into targeting therapeutic applications such as IV infusion surgical applications, regenerative protocols and high dose, high frequency, both in oral and IV in integrative oncology. In these contexts, the form of ascorbate or the form of vitamin C, selected directly influences clinical performance, not only through the difference in tolerability, but in bioavailability, tissue compatibility, stability and energetic demand from a molecular standpoint, the standpoint form dictates pH, oxidative stability, transport mechanism, which is very important. We'll talk about it in just a little bit, a redox cycling and redox cycling, while now both AA and SA, and again, I'm referring to AA as ascorbic acid, sa as sodium ascorbate, ultimately deliver the ascorbate ion only. Sodium ascorbate incorporates a sodium ion, a prerequisite for active transport via svct, one, which means stands for sodium dependent vitamin C transporter. So again, it has the sodium ion, which raise prerequisite to transport vitamin C via sodium dependent vitamin C transporter. One and SVC to the sodium dependent vitamin C transporters. And in contrast, AA relies on passive glut transporters, which are slower, less efficient and more vulnerable to disruption in energy depleted or inflamed tissue. Moreover, AA must be buffered and ionized intracellular, increasing cellular energy demanding and potentially straining redox systems, especially in patients with mitochondrial compromise or malignancies, sodium ascorted, being pre ionized and pH neutral, bypasses this burden. It's more stable in plasma, resist oxidation and better support sustained therapeutic dosing. Most importantly, sa enhances the ascorbate glutathione NADPH triad, improving glutathione recycling and maintaining intracellular redox balance in redox sensitive conditions such as cancer, neurodegeneration, immune dysfunction or hormonal hormonal resistance. This choice can shape therapeutic outcomes. So let's begin with examining the limitation of ascorbic acid followed by the distinct Clinical Advantage of sodium ascorbate ascorbic acid through the widely available present notable limitation across several domains. It's naturally low pH, typically in the low twos, often provokes irritation, tissue damage and discomfort in GI, mucosal and vascular systems, rendering it less suitable for sensitive patients or high dose applications, where, obviously, by definition, are required in cancer, not just high dose, but high frequency, even when buffered. The pH common link remains in the low fives as the range for them that compromises tolerability and, by extension, clinical outcomes, because if you If the patient cannot

Speaker 2  1:05:25
tolerate it, it's very difficult to obtain the required PPC levels to to reach selective cytotoxic results. Chemically, AA is inherently unstable, oxidizing rapidly in plasma or solution, unless carefully protected from heat, light and oxygen exposure, that is why you have very short shelf life on a solutions, once absorbed, it relies on passive blood transport and intracellular conversion To the ascorbate onion, a process that consumes additional cellular energy, and it's easily disrupted in conditions of oxidative stress, with paired mitochondrial function. In contrast, sa sodium ascorbate is naturally buffered mineral salt with a neutral pH range of approximately 7.4 to about 7.8 making it markedly more biocompatible across all delivery routes. Its chemical structure confers greater plasma stability and critically, the presence of sodium ion facilitates, as I mentioned earlier, active transport via svct One and svct two a significant advantage in patients experience elevated oxidative stress tissue hypoxia or mitochondrial dysfunction. This active transport mechanism supports more efficient intracellular uptake and enhance it enhances redox cycling, particularly the regeneration of glutathione and one of body's essential intracellular intracellular antioxidants. These differences are not merely academic. These are clinically actionable in oncology. For example, the tumor microenvironment is often both acidified energy depleted. The use of ascorbic acid in such setting may further contribute to extra cellular acidification, potentially undermining therapeutic goals and tissue tolerance. In contrast, ascorbate, with its pH neutral and sodium coupled transport offers superior biocompatibility and therapeutic precision. Similarly, in chronic in chronic diseases protocol detox and metabo. strain while enhancing the efficacy and sustainability of treatment. So in some while both vitamin C forms ultimately deliver ascorbate there, or ascorbate ion, their pharmacological behavior in the body different significantly selecting the appropriate form, because aa does not deliver directly sodium ions, especially in clinical contexts where dosing, bioavailability and tissue sensitivity and frequencies are critical, it's essential to optimize therapeutic outcome with the most bioavailable form that also increases tolerability and enhanced clinical outcomes. So again, in intravenous serotherapy, sa over superior tolerability, as I mentioned, in comparison to AA, significantly reducing the risk of phlebitis, peripheral vein sclerosis, GI upset and metabolic acidosis, all common concern with high dose and repeated infusions. Sa enables more reliable uptake through a sodium dependent svct, one and two transporters even in redox compromised or energy depleted states, and more effectively supports glutathione recycling and antioxidant regeneration, enhancing redox resilience during oxidative stress in surgical and localized tissue applications. And for those that are interested in it, there is a great recording from our 220 23 symposium. It's available on our website, especially in dental surgeries, and hopefully we will be sharing some cosmetic surgeries in this coming Symposium on October, how it is implemented intraoperatively to enhance tissue regeneration, reduce microbial burden, accelerate healing, etc. So sa can be used intraoperatively or injected directly into joints or tissue planes. In fact, that's one of the conversation I just had recently with Dr Shallenberger, without provoking irritation or disrupting enzymatic healing cascades, its pH neutrality and tissue compatibility makes it ideal for use alongside biologics, regenerative agents and remodeling protocols and integrative surgical care in oral protocol essay provides improved gi tolerance. And by the way, there's a whole section that I go over utilization of ascorbate in dentistry, both for oral and systemic healthcare, for mitigating and resolving periodontal disease, cavitation related infections, hygiene protocols, as well as some others and so it is, can be widely and easily used in the oral mucosa. Unlike AA, which you would never want to use on your teeth or in your mouth, it can erode the enamel. It can cause significant damage and discomfort. In fact, I had one biological dentist that one told once told me that he saw a patient that came in for restoration, but looking examining his mouth, there was pretty much nothing left to to restore, and that is because that particular patient was using ascorbic acid extensively. Um, so again, it's a significant less irritating to the gut lining, oral mucosa or any tissue, which is especially important, also with patients with gastritis, IBS or mucosal inflammation, it is buffered, pH neutral, and ensures steadier state, your absorption, sustainable levels, supports better compliance from the patients, better experience from the patient perspective and preferred in long term therapeutic regimens where cumulative tolerance and metabolic impact matters. The clinical utility of vitamin C isn't just about delivering the ascorbate molecule, but delivering it in the correct form. I already mentioned it, but this is kind of an overview again. So again we talked about ascorbate aa versus sa ultimately yield both of them, the ascorbate ion, but only sa provides the sodium bound pH neutral form which confers key therapeutic advantages in transport tolerability and redox behavior. So I think we pretty much already touched on these points, so we'll just go to the next slide. So now let's discuss how vitamin C's antioxidant role extends far beyond general immune support. It targets specific, redox driven mechanisms implicated in acute infections and chronic inflammatory syndromes in infectious disease, from flu to sepsis to COVID, 19, and I have so many examples I can share with you that we assembled assembled over the the years and especially during the pandemic, vitamin C mitigates the downstream effects of immune overreact over activation and oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, cytokines surges and endothelial injury. It supports neutrophil clearance, modulates ROS and promotes immune resolution in four and importantly, vitamin C also regulates the net formation, a key mechanism in both acute infections and autoimmune flare ups. Dysregulated mitosis is a major driver in vascular injury and and in sepsis, COVID, 19 long COVID and other conditions, and I talk about it again extensively. There's a section we talk about the neutrophil, neutrophils in the net formation, and what happens with the dysregulation ptosis, how it relates to the dysregulated or excessive IRS, one leads to another, and the sequence of thing and what happens to ascorbate as the result of it, and ascorbate, again, acts as a catalyst to regulate all of this, all of these situations. So in spike protein related injuries, for example, whether from viral remnants or vaccine induced immune responses. Vitamin C helps reduce endothelial inflammation and counteract the persistent immune activation seen in many post viral syndromes and in long COVID Which often involves chronic oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and persistent immune dysregulation. High dose or sustained vitamin C protocols, oral and IV can help restore redox homeostasis and improve systemic resilience. Now you will be amazed how quickly you can actually obtain these results with, as I said, pharmacological oral protocol. And I've seen so many protocols to just throw in vitamin C because it sounds good, it sounds sexy because it's the is the word of the moment, especially since the COVID pandemic. But precision matters, and so are the individualized, targeted protocols, understanding that each individual's patients

Speaker 2  1:15:22
pre existing conditions, their levels of toxins, their levels of iOS, their what causes it, and there's a long list of contributing factors. And in fact, the end of this slide show, I will share with you some additional resources that talk extensively about the contributing factors and what actually happens in the science behind it. So this is not all just theoretical. These antioxidant in immune modulatory effects have been leveraged in protocols going back to 1940s actually, since 1930s and the history does matter. In fact, it started with Dr klenner, who published 28 scientific papers, and had 100% success in curing polio. This is all documented, and it was all done with high dose ascorbate. Again, this is all covered in our long certification course. Now let's take a look on vitamin C plays a multi faceted, role in immune regulation and pathogen clearance. It first attenuates inflammatory mediators, specifically il six, TNF, alpha and C reactive protein, protein which are commonly elevated during acute infections, chronic inflammation and cytokines storms. It also modulates innate immunity by supporting neutrophil clearance and accelerating the resolution of nets or neutrophil extracellular traps, this process is essential to prevent collateral tissue damage and mitigate autoimmune activation. The dysregulation of nets is especially relevant in COVID, long COVID and other autoimmune link conditions where excessive net formation amplifies pathology, so beyond immune rate modulation, vitamin C directly impairs viral, bacterial and fungal replication via redox disruption, lysosomal acidification and metabolic inhibition. Clinically, this translates into broad spectrum relevance against pathogens such as the herpes virus, HSV, Epstein Barr Virus, respiratory pathogens, UTIs, and even chronic infections like Lyme disease. Vitamin C also strengthens mucosal and epithelial barrier integrity by promoting collagen syntheses and cross linking a vital mechanism in wound repair, gut health and under and Euro genital defense, we have an incredible examples to bring on UTI, and it can be those women that are suffering from chronic UTI with that oral protocol that can be neutralized within less than an hour, and symptoms are resolved very quickly, and if they maintain their optimal levels, it is unlikely for them to experience another flare up, Something that you do not see with standard antibiotics. Finally, it regulates both oxidative and nitrosative stress, supporting infection resolution while minimizing systemic inflammation. These properties make it indispensable therapeutic tools, conditioning conditions ranging from measles, mumps, measles are very is the latest bug that they trying to push the vaccine about so measles, mumps and herpes to modern infections, burdens like SARS, COVID, two long COVID and Spike protein related syndromes, although most clinicians are familiar with oxidative Stress driven by ROS it's important to briefly acknowledge nitro stress, a parallel process involved involving reactive nitrogen species, particularly peroxynitrate which is forms from the reaction between nitric oxide and superoxide. This contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction protein nitration and persistent inflammation seen in conditions like neurodegenerative diseases, chronic pain syndrome, autoimmunity and cancer. Vitamin C is unique in that it's not only scavenges ROS but also helps neutralize RNs, restoring redox equilibrium and preventing nitro state of injury to tissues and signaling systems. Now let's take a look at peek into how vitamin C plays indispensable role in regenerative medicine due to its structural and regulatory functions at the cellular and extracellular levels as a cofactor for pro lil and lysyl hydroxylase is vitamin C, essential for collagen syntheses and extracellular matrix stability, supporting wound healing, scaffold integration and structural remodeling. It impacts fibroblast activity and collagen cross linking is foundational in tissue regeneration. It enhances mesenchymal stem cell proliferation and differentiation and drives epigenetic reprogram, reprogram via ta T, Tet, enzyme activation, critical for optimizing tissue specific lineage commitment and engraftment success in autonomous or allergenic cell therapies, vitamin C also improves the stability and bioactivity of exosomes by preserving membrane lipid integrity and Protecting mRNA and protein payloads from oxidative degradation. This safeguards their therapeutic signaling and enhances downstream efficacy in regenerative applications. Moreover, vitamin C downgrades pro fibrotic and pro inflammatory cytokines. So I mentioned before they perform, minimizing fibrotic scar, scarring and promoting a regenerative, rather than degenerative, healing trajectory. It also exhibits broad spectrum inhibitor activity, functioning as an anti microbial, anti viral, anti fungal, anti toxin, anti poison, anti inflammatory and potent anti histamine agent. Before we started this session, Dr Clearfield and I had a quick exchange on an issue that he experienced today in his practice. And I can bring you a myriad of examples how literally we saved lives with a quick intervention with a score bait in life threatening situations, these properties are critical, not only in chronic wounds and biofilm laden, biofilm laden environment, but also in acute infections, as I mentioned, sepsis, COVID, 19, post viral syndromes, etc, by reducing microbial load, neutralizing toxin, stabilizing mast cell and dampening hyperinflammation, ascorbate helps restore immune surveillance and enables regenerative healing to proceed unimpeded at the mitochondrial level, we already covered that. So for clinician practicing functional integrating and regenerative medicine, ascorbate is not just an antioxidant, it's a regenerative catalyst that optimizes biologic therapy, cellular resilience and post procedural outcomes. Now for those of you that would like to learn a little bit more on regenerative properties on vitamin C, watch my recent webinar I presented to the American Academy of stem cell physicians, and that is available on our homepage, on vcici.org here we take a focus look on vitamin C roll and a selective peroxidant. Now we don't have the time today to go in depth, because that requires several hours. It is a therapeutic property, often unappreciated and underutilized and actually misapplied in in general, in integrative oncology, while Vitamin C is widely known for its antioxidant effects at physiological levels. At pharmacological doses, particularly when administered IV, it shifts to a pro oxidant role. This effect is made mediated by the generation of hydrogen peroxide in the extracellular space through Fenton chemistry, in which redox active metals like iron catalyze the oxidation of ascorbate tumor cells and pathogens frequently accumulate excess iron to support rapid proliferation, creating a redox active environment that enhances this oxidative reaction. At the same time, these cells often exhibit compromised antioxidant defenses, including low levels of catalase and glucrothy on peroxidase. This makes them particularly vulnerable to oxidative stress, while healthy cells are protected by robust antioxidant systems. I get these calls also on a daily basis with physicians who are providing Cancer Support therapy with high dose IVC. And for those that are highly experienced in integrative oncology,

Speaker 2  1:24:45
they will tell you in specifically that in terms of cancer efficacy, in integrative oncology, in terms of efficacy as high dose IVC comes first. I'm not advocating, advocating by any means to him for mono therapy. I'm just telling you in terms of efficacy, but that is if it is done right. I see every magical mistake happens on a daily basis with colleges. I just received today from a physician who was administering the therapy and at the same time administering glutathione. So there's all these things that we need to look out for. This differential susceptibility creates a powerful therapeutic window. The resulting oxidative burst as a result of Fenton reaction, selectively damage malignant and infected cell through DNA damage, lipid peroxidation, ATP depletion and apoptosis without harming normal tissue beyond its direct cytotoxicity, vitamin C also remodels the tumors micro environment by dampening chronic inflammation, restoring immune surveillance, exchanging, enhancing, I'm sorry, oxygenation, reversing hypoxia and supporting vascular normalization and increasing radio sensitivity as a result, hdivc, or high dose vitamin C, acts not only as targeted oxidative stressor, but also as a synergistic agent, improving conventional medicines such as chemo and radiation, reducing toxicity, supporting overall treatment outcomes, and it's also foundational to integrative oncology, where stacking sequencing and proper delivery of Vitamin C is key to efficacy. So what I mentioned before, it needs, I mean, you need to understand how to properly sequence them with other therapies, timing, hierarchy and what you can stack it with, or what you should not potentially to explore this, including synergistic combination with, as I said, conventional therapies or complementaries, whether it's ozone or ally alpha or folic Acid and more, please refer to our certification course

Unknown Speaker  1:27:06
next,

Speaker 2  1:27:08
as we move from clinical application to implementation, is essential to address the practical safety. So let's just talk a little bit about that, particularly when administered, as I said, IVC this trip physics approach, oral preloading, IV repletion, repletion and sustained maintenance offers both therapeutic efficacy and excellent safety profile when executed with precision, high dose IVC, especially with ascorbate, is extremely well tolerated by most patients, by but safely, safety doesn't come from the molecule alone. It comes from appropriate screening, clinical insight and individualized protocol, including not only dosing frequency, rate of administration, duration of the actual treatment and then the long term maintenance protocol. But to start with the first and the most critical requirement is g6 PD screening. Patient with glucose six phosphate dehydrogenase or g6 PD deficiency, lack the enzymatic capacity to regenerate, regenerate, reduce glutathione efficiently, making them more vulnerable to oxidative stress when exposed to high dose vitamin C, this can lead to hemolysis due to inability of red blood cells to buffer the oxidized oxidative burst that we just talked about for this Reason, g6 PD testing is a non negotiable tool, or screening before initiating any high dose. IVC. Now when we talk about high and those need to understand that I primarily deal with integrative oncology clinics from all over the world. The dosing can range or start from 50 grams and sometimes go to as high as 300 grams in 24 hours. And if you're giving anybody anything more than 25 grams, g6 PD, clearance is an absolute must. Now it's important to note that deficiency. Now somebody just called me, well, what about high levels of g6 PD, high levels is not a problem. What we don't want to see is low levels. It does. It's not frequently that you will see a patient with g6 PD deficiency, but it does happen, and in those cases, it's not necessarily a contraindication, but you just need to start low and slow. What does it mean? In some cases, patients with mild variance may tolerate gradual titration. So what we've seen over the years those patients that have g6 PD deficiency, you can actually get them to normal levels in time, but you need to start gradually. You might need to start them with 20 or 25 grams, and then slowly titrate them up. And believe it or not, it is not a permanent condition. They get then to normal levels, and you can proceed accordingly with the levels that they require to get to the peak plasma concentration in order to achieve those cytotoxic levels. So next, renal functions must be evaluated. Ascorbate is renally excreted, and while it high dose, IVC has not been linked to kidney stones. Now that's another misconception I discussed, both in my book and the certification course with normal it is not correlated to oxalate kidney stones in normal renal function patients impaired, cleaners clearance can lead potentially to oxalate accumulation, so adequate hydration and routine monitoring are essential here. Iron status is another important consideration. It is vitamin C increases iron absorption and mobilization and benefit in many cases, but a risk in patient with hemochromatosis or iron overload, in such cases, lower dosing or oral ascorbate through the SIP seven to seven protocol we'll discuss in the next slide or so may offer a much safer alternative. Needless to say, that if you have a stage four cancer patient, you're not going to achieve those levels with with oral protocols. So in the integrative with clinics, or with integrative clinics that I work with, they do get these type of patients, and they still get the high doses that they require, but they're just closely monitored. It is also important to assess for history of fluid overload or kidney stones. We already mentioned that, but fluid overload conditions like congestive heart failure, malignant asitis or advanced renal diseases that I mentioned earlier again. These are not necessarily contraindications, but you have to watch and monitor these patients, you know closely now, again, in the oncological settings, most of these patients that arrive there, they're already stage four, and therefore they're going to have malignant asitis. And these patients often receive an excess of 150 or even 250 or sometimes 300 grams in 24 hours, but they close closely monitored. So the bottom line when these safety considerations are addressed up front, g6 PD, kidney function, iron load, flu intolerance, hdivc becomes a highly safe and powerful clinical tool. And um, let's take a look at the SIP seven to seven protocol. And so what does it really stand for? Is that you want optimal and gradual distribution from your waking hours to your bedtime. Seven to seven. Basically, we want to make sure that those levels, just like with hormones, and I mentioned that analogy in the beginning. You want to maintain stay a stable, sustainable and optimal levels, which is very challenging with patients that are critically ill, because studies have demonstrated that critically ill patients are in constant state of deficiency or sometimes depletion. So in order to avoid that, we recommend this protocol, which is very practical, and as I mentioned earlier, not all patients required IV vitamin C. So don't be quick to jump into it, because I can bring you so many examples with patients with all kind of situations and especially infections that we were able to resolve very quickly with oral protocol, even with elderly patients with pre existing comorbidities such as cancer and they had COVID and it was something that we were able to reverse and resolve within hours. So however, every patient requires sufficient tissue ascorbate levels, and that's where oral protocol becomes indispensable. So what I'm sharing with you today is mostly for maintenance, but this is also especially true in chronic and complex conditions, which I mentioned. Physiological ascorbate levels are chronically depleted in these type of situations due to oxidative stress that is increased infection, toxic burden and metabolic dysfunction, especially in aging patients. In these cases, the oral sodium ascorbate becomes daily clinical tool for maintaining redox homeostasis, preventing flare ups and supporting regenerative immune functions. Now, remember, we talked about mitochondria and chronic fatigue. I get these calls and examples and feedback from both clinicians and their patients all the time, and recently, it was a gentleman who was in his late 80s dealing with cancer truly just did not want to get out of bed, had no energy and no so to speak, joie de vivre, so to speak, so there was really no juice. So to speak left anymore for him to fight it, and when we put him on this oral protocol, he was ready to get started with dancing. I'm kidding you not. These are the reports that I get from our clinician. So this is why we developed the seven to seven protocol, a targeted, real world oral dosing system designed to meet the needs of functional and integrative practices and their patients. So for maintenance, begin with one teaspoon, which is the on average, four grams daily. Now we don't measure ascorbate to the accuracy that you would have to measure a drug. Okay, the body will determine the levels that it need. It needs on that particular day, because the fluctuations is, is a daily occurrence depending on the oxidative stress, whether they slept well, whether they overworked themselves, traveled and a whole and a myriad of other scenarios. So this is appropriate for relatively healthy individuals and supports long term immune balance, hormonal regulation, skin health, collagen integrity, energy and redox status. So I really call it like your invisible bubble. You want to walk into the airport and everybody is hacking and sneezing, or maybe a hospital setting, and you want to make sure that you have a natural defense. This is what you do in order not to catch whatever bug that I that is. And if you do, you are going to experience maybe a lighter version of it. And so that is, again, maintenance for relatively healthy individual. Now if we're dealing with acute presentations, whether it's viral, bacterial, inflammatory, post procedural like surgeries, this protocol shifts. Now we start with a one teaspoon loading dose, which is very similar to what we do like with an IV. We have a loading dose

Speaker 2  1:37:05
followed with another dose every two to four hours until gut tolerance. Once the threshold is reached, titrate it down gradually. The most common mistake that both providers do or not communicating it to their patients, or patients are non compliant. You're not doing it. You can resolve symptoms so quickly with it is especially if it's a medical grade product, but they discontinue the use of it upon resolution of all set of symptoms. So it's very important to note that continue a lower dose for at least 72 hours post resolution of all symptoms, or it whatever that is, bacteria, virus will continue to proliferate, and if you're not doing it, you will not be able to prevent rebound or relapses, which are especially prevalent and critical in chronic conditions such as UTI or shingle virus for therapeutic protocols, especially high dose or chronic use, use only pure medical grade sodium ascorbate. Your patients will not be able to tolerate these protocols or achieve the necessary levels with AA, let alone if there is any additives, and most of them do, from Excipient preservatives or flavoring agents. This will compromise the clinical effects. So you want effervescent and additive containing formulations will that will absolutely compromise it. And I received calls from practitioners that noticed that there was all kind of preservatives that in in commonly used vitamin CS, so for patients unable to total tolerate oral dosing. So let's say you had a non compliant patient, or when tissue saturation is urgently needed, IV sodium ascorbate remain an excellent and in some situations, when it's a life threatening situation due to some kind of toxicity, allergic reaction, poison. You might also be doing injectables, IMO, subcutaneously. So we talk about it at length as well. So we are nearing the end here. I think we went quite a bit over time, but I wanted to equip you with additional resources that are available through VC ICICI. As I mentioned to you earlier, I only teach group webinars. These are live webinar, four sessions each, four hours each, twice a year. The last certification course for 2025 is starting on August 4. It is at 6pm Eastern, and it is a live webinar. So you don't have to fly, you don't have to stay at a hotel in but you do have to be you have to be available via live video zoom. In addition to that, we have the symposium. This is a very sought after scientific Summit, and it is going to be held October, 24 and 25th in Clearwater Beach Florida. The registration is open. Our discounted rooms are almost sold out. So I encourage you to review the information on our website, the agenda, the extensive schedule that we just published last week. It is CME and CE accredited sessions. So if you choose to get those, these are available. And lastly, for both clinicians and your patients, I have been asked to write this book over a decade, and it's finally available. This is your foundational resource, both before the course and I strongly suggested that if you're going to take the course and you are going to get overwhelmed with it. If you don't want to be in that situation, read the book beforehand. It will lay out the foundation. It will be easier to follow. And then a resource after you've taken the course to kind of refresh your recollection. In addition to it, is an excellent road map for your patients that are seeking integrative, especially cancer treatment modalities, and you don't have the hours to spend with them, to educate them. This answers many, many questions and gives them tips and what they can do at home. So know that book does not provide you with all the protocols, because, again, you need to understand the pharmacokinetics, the pharmacodynamics, the biochemistry and the science behind vitamin C, so you don't implement one size fits all approach, because that never, hardly ever works, and that is what we cover in that foundational certification program that most of our providers actually repeated several times because of the amount of information shared, but in order not to do that again, read the book first and then come join us at the symposium. I'll share a little bit more about it in a moment. Here you can see the date, so feel free to take a snapshot of that. But it's also available on the vcici.org website under certification, it will give you all the dates and times and how to register. And if you are a vcic member, you do receive discounts on our certification course, as well as the symposium. Now, the symposium, as I said, The schedule was just released last Friday. It's taking place on the beautiful beaches of the most number one beach town in United States, Clearwater Beach, right on the Gulf of America. This year's speaker lineup is truly exceptional. Join us our world renowned ozone medicine pioneers like Dr Frank schauenberger and Dr Robert Rowan, who will be presenting the latest clinical breakthroughs in synergy and the synergy between ozone therapy and ascorbate, including new application of ozonated glycerin OG or I call it, oh my OMG, oh my god, combined with sodium ascorbate in regenerative and oncological protocol. And you'll also hear from our esteemed host, Dr William Clearfield, who will explore much deeper vitamin C regulatory role across endocrine pathways and deeper dive into what we began here today, again, the lineup is extensive, so you can look it up on on the website. We will finish that amazing or actually we will start the Friday evening with an amazing sunset. Welcome reception, right on the beach. Perfect way to unwind. Meet and Greet, discuss signs and everything else. So again, registration open. Now. Lastly, for those of you that are seeking resources with medical grade a sodium ascorbate that is aligns with the origin protocols. With kleener and Cathcart, you can sign up or create an account on the pure see website. It is the 100% pure. It is the pure sodium was four bit available anywhere on the market, and it's marketed worldwide. It's formulated for pharmacologic and broad spectrum clinical applications. So again, you can get that information at pure dash c.com and lastly, this is the contacts information. So please do stay connected. I know that I covered a lot of information, and it was a marathon session. So for those of you that would like to dive a little bit deeper, you can reach us via VC, ICICI, if it's regarding training or pure C. So you have the email addresses there, and now we'll, I'll open it. I'll actually, actually stop the share, and I will open it for questions, and if I can't see you, make sure that you speak up.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:02
So there's thank you so much. I don't even know where to where to begin, but so there is a question in the chat about, what about calcium ascorbate versus sodium? Ascorbate?

Speaker 2  1:45:12
Okay, well, calcium ascorbate, and again, it's also covered in my book, and there are several books that have been published by others about the concerns with calcium. And because you have to titrate vitamin C, especially in pharmacological applications and in such high doses, I would recommend that you do not use any other form of vitamin C that offers something else to with in addition to it, whether it's calcium or magnesium, because you will overdose on that and underdose with on vitamin C.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:49
How about liposomal vitamin C?

Speaker 2  1:45:51
So liposomal Vitamin C is one of the most common misconceptions, misunderstandings. It is addressed in depth, actually on both vcic and pure C websites, in our conferences, it was a question that was asked, and both Dr Merrick and Dr Fleming responded to it. And there was a section in my book about myths and misconception. I really encourage you to take a read on that section, because it it covers that in depth, although I always say any vitamin C is better than none, you want to make sure that that you are Hold on one second. Something popped up on my screen. So you want to make sure that you are getting the most number one bioavailable form. So if you are getting liposomal, there's no harm if it's a sodium ascorbate, but you certainly don't number one, you don't have the broad spectrum application choices that we discuss in the certification course, whether it's inhalation, nebulization, intraoperatively, seven to seven you you will need much higher doses. So what I'm telling you that you needed pharmacologically, let's talk about orally, because that's the only comparison you have. So number one, that there's very limited data on liposomal vitamin C to begin with, and it is not compelling. It is not peer reviewed. And the studies, the initial studies, were done on two individuals. So for that reason, the scientists on our panels, whether it's Dr. Fleming, PhD, mdjd or Dr. Merrick did not support it, nor do I if, at least, it's a sodium ascorbic you're not going to do any harm, but you're not going to get. Now, if you're taking it as support to maintain the physiological level, as I said, Any ascorbate is better than none, but on the on the pharmacological levels you may need orally, let's say you are a patient with an acute COVID. You may need 30 to 50 grams orally to resolve it, and it works very quickly and very effectively. I have examples of it that I share in my during my certification course, and one of the most critical, memorable ones of them was one of my providers called me about her parents who contracted the Delta virus, and both of them were in their 90s, one of them with cancer, and another one is Alzheimer's and asthma. And it was a Thursday afternoon, and she was quite panicked, and I said, just start on this pharmacological oral protocol. And that was around four, want to say about 4pm on Thursday, on Friday, 10am I received the call that she could not believe that they, literally, both of them, did a 180 now, those doses will vary. It can be and I've, I've had the bug five times, and depending on the severity and what your physiological levels were to begin with, which will affect the level or the severity of the disease. That will determine how much you need now, if remember when I stopped, if you discontinued too early, then those symptoms will return, and I have plenty of those examples as well. We have plenty of examples that are used in in dentistry and with the in veterinary sector. So you simply cannot accomplish that in liposomal plus your cost per gram, just to give you an idea, the cost per gram for a liposomal is typically between one to, you know, $1 I mean, one gram can cost over $1 let's just put it this way, and you can compare different brands, brands, and I know that Our medical pharmaceutical grade SNC product on pure C translates to about 35 cents a gram. So in fact, on a pure sea level, that product SNC called is named SNC for essential daily use, became the number one selling product, and we've had often shortages of it, because there's, it's a broad spectrum applications there. There are so many things you can do. I mean, whether you have somebody with sinus infections or migraine headaches, you can neutralize it and control it or resolve it, sometimes in a matter of minutes. These applications will be something that you're not familiar with, as I said, inhalation, ingestion, topical, injections. Think about it, anything that any delivery route that you would be doing with ozone, you would be doing with ascorbate, the the examples that I can bring you in in biological dentistry are profound. I mean, I have not and I share this experience every time I lecture, because I have not touched a commercial toothpaste, I think, probably over 15 years, and I brush my teeth with it. Now, remember the example that I brought, brought to you about ascorbic acid in the teeth. I mean in an oral cavity. Don't go there. And in fact, I delivered a half a day seminar in Old Dominion University to all the healthcare or dental professionals on the ascorbate, on the pivotal role of ascorbate in dental hygiene and oral and systemic health connection. So again, there's just so much information. The book that I referred to to the the C word is, is a encyclopedia on vitamin C and all of these different applications and what it can and cannot do. So again, I just would like to mention that what we covered today is is the tip of the iceberg. We really just scratched the surface to provide you with an overview. And the type of questions that I'm beginning to hear are the most commonly asked questions, and I'm often the most common misconceptions that lead to misapplication so I really encourage you to read it, because there's 550 pages of scientific information with references and more of that is in more depth with All these studies and case studies and examples and protocols is covered in the certification course.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:42
Any additional questions?

Bill Clearfield  1:52:47
So Dr Smith put up an article saying about ascorbate, calcium versus sodium. It says the article discusses why ascorbic acid is compounded in recent times, has to be pH compatible with blood, whereas in past years, it was

Speaker 2  1:53:04
very acidic. It's not. It still is. Just pull out a pH stick

Bill Clearfield  1:53:09
and and measure it. That was the question. They wanted to know what you felt

Speaker 2  1:53:13
about that. So, so it's not what I feel it's it's just research, and you can do the same thing in your office the so first of all, we talked about different delivery or absorption mechanism in terms of ascorbate and ascorbic acid, in terms of energy glutathione recycling and acidifying the tumor microenvironment. But if you're specifically asking about pH so years ago, FDA mandated for AA to be buffered because you cannot use it because naturally, it's a 2.4 2.2 to 2.4 so they literally, to this date, even the buffered form of it is used in industrial applications such as pool cleaning. When you buffer ascorbic acid, it only reaches about 5.2 to 5.4 so you're still in a very acidic environment, you're still going to cause permanent sclerosis of the veins, if you're not using central PICC line or port, and you're still going to cause the discomfort, and therefore very difficult for you to obtain PPC and maintain those PPC levels. If you ever tried it yourself, you will know the difference. And if you tried one in each arm, ascorbic acid and sodium ascorbate, you will never extend the ascorbic acid or the arm for ascorbic acid experience, it's as simple as that. So it's still acidic. And also, once you artificially buffer it, you already degradating the product because it oxidizes it, so you have a degree of oxidation, and because on a molecular level, it is much less stable product. This is why you have such a limited shelf life. Once any ascorbate reconstitute is reconstituted, the clock is ticking, but the clock is ticking much slower on ascorbate. Now, pure C products are provided to, you know, in a in a powder form. And so you're getting the freshest, the most potent. And therefore it translates to results. When you get the ascorbate, the ascorbic acid that is already solution, it comes in 25 gram vials. The Ultra C product stands for ultra pure from pure C comes to you in 50 grams. So it's twice as much in a powder form that is much more stable, and it doesn't degradate as quickly, because it is much more soluble and much more stable product, whereas a score bed degradates very quickly. So the bottom line is, if you want number one, the most potent formula that translate to higher efficacy, all ascorbate should be reconstituted. You know, when I say ascorbate, I'm I'm using it as interchangeably, but I will say all vitamin C forms should be a reconstituted, prepared on premises the Cathcart planner protocol for utmost, utmost potency, and therefore clinical efficacy once ascorbic acid is reconstituted, the process itself, first of all, the buffering process degradates it, and now it's a solution that comes to you in a vial that you must refrigerate or refrigerate, and you have at most 30 days to use it, but if you were to look at it after a week, it's already yellowish. That's mean it's already compromised. So optimal, optimally, you want a solution that is clear. It can be a little bit yellow, a little tint to it. The darker it gets, the less potency you get, and also the more unpleasant experience it is for your patient. And it's going to be unpleasant with AA anyway you you you take it, whether you take it orally or you take it intravenously, certainly you don't want to inhale it. You don't want to rinse your mouth, brush your teeth. I mean, we've used it on patient with cavitation infections that was resolved within less 24 hours. In fact, it was an example that was brought to me by one of our presenters on previous conferences that came to me two weeks later, where I presented it enough another conference saying that I saved their lives because they had unresolved cavitation infection that was not responding to any antibiotics or any treatments. And after listening to my lecture, what you you can do with ascorbate orally, it was resolved in 24 hours. It is very effective, very potent, very fast acting, very safe and and broad spectrum applications.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:05
Any additional

Speaker 4  1:58:06
Dr Mario, you have any questions? Yeah, sure. Thank you so much for that presentation. That was awesome. Yeah, I wanted to kind of give our audience here a clinical trick that I do. So me and Dr Bill, we like our hormone so I whenever I use somebody, when you mention about vitamin C being an very important ingredient of hormone metabolism, so cholesterol gets used or activated to turn into pregnenolone using a lot of vitamin C. So every hormone patient that I have, I make sure I put vitamin C on. But the caveat that you did today, I'm going to change them now to sodium ascorbate, because I'm using sometimes ascorbic acid. But for any clinician out there that who's using hormones, maybe that's probably a foundational supplement that everybody should start with. I mean, as you mentioned, adrenal is kind of like uses a lot of this. It is the number one organ that probably consumes that. So thank you for reiterating that

Speaker 2  1:59:06
to our audience. No, and I appreciate the feedback. And not only that, there are studies to demonstrate. And again, when I talk about cardiovascular health and epithelial health section in this uh 16 hour certification program, I expand into it, it actually there are studies to demonstrate that it lowers the bad cholesterol. There are also studies to demonstrate that it lowers, um, high blood pressure, because that's another misconception, and I talk about it in my book, because I get these calls all the time, and you need to understand again, the biochemistry we're talking about sodium ion, not sodium sodium chloride. It's not the same as table salt. And I get these questions from physicians all the time. So now, high levels, high doses of ascorbate do not cause hypertension. And by the way, I absolutely loved your tip on garlic. And as a side note, I was raised since infancy, pretty much on eating raw garlic. And I came from a family of world renowned MDs, PhDs, and it was actually my grandmother also that was giving me a couple of cloves of garlic. When I raw garlic every day, and I learned to love it. So to me, when you mention, well, 10 cloves of garlic a day might be too much. I'm not an Italian, but I believe there isn't such a thing as too much garlic, and I

Speaker 4  2:00:32
prefer my garlic raw. Well, we're not going to use toothpaste anymore. We have your vitamin, vitamin C, as sodium ascorbate as

Speaker 2  2:00:40
our toothpaste for that, right? Yes. So the unique thing about it, and I actually on our website, there is a short video, I believe you have to log in as a member, and my better half, who was a world renowned scientist and a physician and a key opinion leader in integrative oncology, did a video that I only discovered recently. My husband passed away several years ago, and so he did a video for Dr bam, who was a biological dentist, and Dr BAM also passed away, but that video is still with us, to remind the clinical importance of ascorbate and biophysical medicine, and so what I learned years ago from Dr Bam is how to brush my teeth properly and I don't use commercial products pretty much, not on my skin and not anything that I ingest. And you simply can take, and I think it's also in my book, this protocol, but you can take a toothbrush, simply spray hydrogen peroxide on it, take a pinch of our SNC product, because it doesn't have any additive. It has no preservatives. And I'm saying it pinch in the palm of your hand, because you don't want to contaminate the bottle or the jar or the individual packets. The essence, he comes in a jar of 250 grams, or individual packets of four grams, which is basically, that's what you tear and put in your SIP, seven to seven protocol, at least one packet. But if you're needing pharmacological levels, it's much higher. So the jars are great for home. Use the as I said, these fly off the shelf, and the individual packets. Patients love them because they I never leave home without it. And so you take a pinch, and you put it in your in your hand, and you dunk your wet toothbrush that you just sprayed with hydrogen peroxide on in the vitamin C, and you brush it, it leaves your teeth very clean, very sleek, but most importantly, it reduces microbial burden. But unlike the commercial products that you're using, especially for rinsing your mouth, that will kill everything good in oral microbiome, this does not but it kills everything that you don't need, right? So therefore, going back to that cavitation story, if you have a patient with periodontal disease, it is a must. It is a must for them also, not only do to do the SIP seven to seven, but also brush their teeth with it. And again, you can actually prepare solutions for nasal cavity, meaning in terms of sinusitis or any kind of sinus infections. It can be inhaled, it can be used in for ocular health, as as rinse. And as I said, I talk about all of these preparations and how to and showing you pictures before, after, what kind of things, what kind of conditions you can remedy very quickly with these applications that otherwise most people are not aware of.

Speaker 4  2:03:47
So you're saying just the powder, basically dipping your toothbrush

Speaker 2  2:03:50
there, and then that's it. And this is what I'm saying if, if you were to recommend one product. So I get to try. I mean, I travel quite a bit. My oxidative stress is constantly through the roof. I'm working 24/7 so by definition, even if I I lead, I lead a very healthy lifestyle, my oxidative stress is increased when I'm on the go the and it's not because I do have manufacturing capabilities. I can manufacture anything, but the one thing I don't leave home without always is sodium ascorbate. It's remember I mentioned. It's the pleiotropic functions, antiviral, antibacterial, antifungal, antihistamine, analgesic, and the list goes on and on. So about a week ago or so, I literally saved my partner's life when he went into anaphylactic shock. And I can tell you that it was so severe that if I had called 911 probably would have been too late. And in this was done with SNC because I didn't even have time to prepare it in any other form, if you're following what I'm trying to say. So I will share these record, I mean, these examples, on a different platform that is not being recorded and potentially then later put on YouTube. So you will learn how to but it is a life saving critical care. And these are the kind of things that Dr Kleiner documented, as I said, since the 1930s and 1940s

Speaker 4  2:05:30
right? Well, yeah, there's so many good things about vitamin C. Um, so here's an email question for you. So you we mentioned about ever so everybody, almost in this group, is treating Hashimotos. You mentioned about lowering down antibodies for Hashimotos. So that's one of the bigger challenges in treating Hashimotos. We use gluten free diets, right? Dairy free diets, and even plant cereals. But what is basically the dosing, if you could share that to us on how we

Speaker 2  2:05:59
can control the dosing, you need to understand that ascorbate levels are depleted in an accelerated rate anytime they're associated with increased inflammatory markers, so associated With any kind of chronic disease where we have increased iOS and dysregulated nets formation. Okay, so by definition, the ascorbate levels are going and then you have lifestyle factors. We have toxins, we have age related just process of aging. Are there on any medications? So you really in these type of situations, you need to find their optimal or score bait level levels. And on a practical note, unless you're dealing with cancer patients, which I will share with you, what you absolutely should be doing, and 99% of providers does not follow these protocols, and I see that all the time. So literally, with cancer, can care, you don't have the privilege, so to speak, to make a mistake. Okay, you precision is is your number one priority if you don't reach those levels and don't maintain them long enough and frequently enough, all you're providing is slip on, slap on the wrist. Now, if you're dealing with, for example, you brought Hashimotos. Well, we need to find and we can take any other condition, right, whether it's an acute infection, chronic infection or chronic disease, you know, Hashimoto. I mean, cancer isn't a category of its own. I devote about four hours just on that in that course. But with other situation, it is not practical, and you're not going to be measuring as for bait levels with every patient, every every day, because those levels constantly fluctuate. As I mentioned, even if you take a healthy person, I'm relatively healthy. I work out. I'm getting enough vitamin D naturally. I eat, you know, plant based diet, all organic, all GMO, all of that. But my levels are constantly dipping. And how would you know? You would know when you when you feel fatigued, when you have a brain fog, right? And remember, I mentioned to you about that patient that bounced back very quickly, that 80 some, 80 year old that had cancer, so because it affects mitochondrial function and and here you have accelerated depletion. So you need to find, what is their? What is their? I call it the happy zone. And the happy zone fluctuates daily, and it's different from everybody, depending on their lifestyle. And how would you know you've got to get them to their gut tolerability. Now, gut tolerability is usually necessary if you're trying to resolve infection here, you're trying to maintain levels. So how would you know? Well, I would start them with maybe one teaspoon, but one teaspoon is four grams. So let me just reach for this and give you an example.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:16
So

Speaker 2  2:09:22
these packets, I hope I'm putting it the right way, SNC, these contain four grams, easy to go with, right? This is 250 gram of SNC. I don't know if you could see that. And this is our ultra sea and we will talk to I mean, in our library, in the vcici library, there are videos, actually preparation, instructions of how to prepare all of that. But so you start with four grams. But let's take two individuals as an example. You have a 70 year old, 95 pounds or 115 pounds woman. Now you have a 75 year old male who's maybe 225 pounds. His disease maybe is more advanced, so his four grams is going to be enough right off the bat. No. Now, in rare situations, even with ascorbate, which is not the same as ascorbic acid, because ascorbic acid really will tear up your gut, if I'm telling you the clean toilets and pools with it when you're putting it to somebody's body, irrelevant and what route of administration, you're causing damage and you're causing discomfort and therefore non compliance, right? So, but even with a score bait, some people are either extremely sensitive or they're already at pretty close to being optimal levels. So they might take one of these, and that would be enough. They take another one, they're going to experience gi discomfort, that is a cue to you, to or for them, and for you to inform your patients, to titrate it down. So let's say they put they started with two of these, or two scoops. This one comes with a scoop. They put two scoops in the seven to seven large bottle filtered water. And the idea is to sip on it every 20 to 30 minutes. If you don't follow this now, it's not your hydration bottle. It is your SIP seven to seven bottle. You want gradual distribution for maximum absorption to sustain those levels. Because remember, if you're going to remember one thing from this lecture, I said, you want to maintain sustainable, optimal levels throughout the day, if your level dips, dip like this with hormones, that's not what you want for your patients. Well, it's the same thing that you don't want with ascorbate especially if they're immunocompromised patients. So seven to seven protocol resolves that. And by the way, we get calls from patients every day, every day, asking for this product. We do not sell directly to patients. We have the ability for you to through pure see. And those are two independent companies, by the way, the vcic is a nonprofit, strictly educational, but if you go on pure C and you wanted to drop ship to your patient, you can do that. And patients are constantly calling us who can provide or supply it for them, and we have to direct them to providers. So that is something for you to to take advantage of. Become VC ICICI certified, be on our on our list of providers, so we can refer these patients to you, whether you're seeing them personally or you're just sending them. And by the way, during the conference this symposium, we also have legal experts to tell you how you can protect yourself when you are in integrative, functional, regenerative practice, because obviously, you're practicing everything that is under a microscope, and you're always a target. So how you protect yourself, whether you do telehealth or anything else, right? So I hope I answered that question you in order to really understand that there's a chapter in my book that really outlines all the contributing factors to depletion, what accelerates this rate of depletions and what increases the metabolic requirement? And it's all about that redox balance, because this is where, if you're not here, but you're here, your patient is compromised. So whatever else therapeutics that you're using, they are not going to be optimal. If you want to amplify, enhance and boost it up, you've got to have to maintain, I mean, prepare the terrain first. Now I mentioned that I presented a webinar a week or a couple of weeks ago for the American Academy of stem cell physicians. It is available for free on our website. Do take advantage of it. Do listen to it. There are some great resources, especially if you are in any regenerative you have regenerative practices, you're doing any kind of biologics. It is amazing what some of our providers are doing with it, implementing it into In fact, as I mentioned, Dr Shallenberger was just discussing it with me about a week ago about injectables into joints and with other nutrients

Speaker 4  2:14:40
and biologics you're pertaining to. That's another question here that that's definitely you have an IV version or intramuscular version of this? Is that correct?

Speaker 2  2:14:49
That's also in your company? No, you will learn how

Unknown Speaker  2:14:53
to prepare it. Okay?

Speaker 2  2:14:55
Interesting, as I said, if you want the most potent form of vitamin C, it has to be, I can't really comment on it during this lecture, but it's going to be all explained in the certification course. Since this lecture has been recorded for potentially YouTube or anything else, these are not the things that I can really discuss on this

Bill Clearfield  2:15:14
particular platform. Do we start? We stop right before the course the courses, the course was great, and books were things was then

Speaker 2  2:15:27
I will tell you that, as Dr Shallenberger and many others will, Shallenberger said that he wanted his name on our literature, and he said, once you go pure C, you never go back. Because he's addicted to it. And we have many, many others that have the same opinion. Dr Lodi, who is considered to be very well known in integrative oncology, and administered probably over 100,000 procedures, said he would never administered another one without this product. And we don't market it. We don't advertise it. It's word of mouth from clinician to clinician or patient to clinician, because once they experience it, they don't want to experience anything else. So if there was one case that was really very touching. A gentleman called me, and I talked to him, and he was out of Europe and desperately seeking this product. Well, I don't know if you're aware. I mean, just like with ozone peptides and even stem cell therapies in many of these countries, vitamin C has been banned. Yeah, it is very difficult to source. Certainly you're not going to find sodium ascorbate. It is the most potent tool in your toolbox, okay, and it's so versatile. And he's been battling Lyme disease for 30 years. He's been all over the world. Who lives part time in Europe, part time in the US. He said that the only, the only vitamin C form that saved him, that helped him, over the years, it's been pure C. It performs on a different level. That's why this product is shipped to all over the world in various ways, so they can get it because it's very

Speaker 4  2:17:18
difficult to get it right. So one of the sounds like from the sound of your statements that so one of the controversies is really trying to find the levels of vitamin C. There's so many different testing, plasma, WBC, leukocyte, urinary, but it sounds like symptoms are basically one of your bigger parameters in terms of levels, right? That's one of the questions here that are there recommended testings for on

Speaker 2  2:17:46
your end about this? Yes, they are. And there's a series of testing that I only discuss when we discuss on oncological applications for everything else you don't need. It simply as that, when it comes to diagnostic tools, I'm very conservative about it, because, as my better half used to say, if you're not going to change the course of treatment, why would you need the diagnostics? So I'm giving you an approach that is very practical. That is harmless. The worst case scenario, under any circumstance, is that they're going to get GI upset, which is a good thing in our space. We call it the sea flush. Okay, you want them to get especially if you get them to a level of diarrhea, especially if they have an infection, that is great, because you're flushing toxins. You want to make sure that they're well hydrated, though, because this is not their hydration bottle. And that's one of the things that patient overlook, because they have a bottle of liquids and they think that this is their hydration so this is the worst case scenario. Now, the only time that I say, I mean, I had a provider that called me and she said, Oh my god. Oh my god. I have a patient with severe UTI. I need to prepare 100 grams for IV. I said, Why? Why are you taking the elephant approach, where all you need is a fly and it can be resolved in a matter of probably 30 to 60 minutes. I see it with patients all the time. I see it with pediatric patients. There was a little girl five years old. Same scenario. We see it in veterinary sector, and those patients can't save anything. They just pull on their line. If they, if they, you're giving them IV ascorbic acid, which is brutal, and most of these situations can be resolved with SNC applications.

Speaker 4  2:19:48
All right, here's a curious question, so maybe you can bust the myth, if this is a myth, or maybe approve it if it's the fact that vitamin C has absorption dose dependency, meaning less than 200 milligrams per day. 100% absorbed, 500 milligrams, 17 absorbed, is that in correlation to what you're finding?

Speaker 2  2:20:09
So there used to be, again, there's so much misconception about vitamin C. There's, and I talk about when I start my course that there's over 80,000 articles on PubMed alone on vitamin C, right, and majority of them have no knowledge or understanding on pharmacokinetics. And I've had my debates with many of them. The body will take as much as it needs, especially if you're providing proper absorption, and what are you, as I said, is it maintenance Protocol, or is it an acute we need to resolve it right away and very quickly. So the more severe the in I'm talking about infections, primarily the more severe infection, because here you get a patient that comes to you in the morning with a flare up, whether whether it's viral or bacteria, it's out of control. You need that quick loading dose, this very similar analogy that you would do either with antibiotics or anti inflammatory. Think about it like steroid pack. You're going to do a loading dose, and then, because we know that it's clears through the kidneys within a couple of hours, you're going to do another loading dose within an hour, even or two hours, because they the the flare up is acute, so you want to resolve it very quickly, within that hour. Let's say I always talk about in my classes on UTI, because it's such it's so prevalent, it's such classic and and the results are so quick, and it works like a clock on every patient within an hour that patient has no longer has symptoms now, because it's a chronic bacterial infection which is resistant to Antibiotics, we know that they're already frustrated because their physician is telling them to take a prophylactic antibiotic after every intercourse, pretty much, which destroys their gut flora, which destroys their immune system. And so now let's assume that you resolved it and they're symptom free within an hour, and remember what I said? You continue titrate it down, get it to high gut tolerance. We really talk more about those specific in that course, but get them and then titrate it down and continue with at least 72 hours post resolution of all symptoms. But that woman, in most cases, it's women, but it's also prevalent in men, especially those that have any kind of prostate issues, so the same protocol, or anyone who is um, especially they have any kind of injuries, so they're prevalent, I mean, they're in a wheelchair, they Get, they get a lot of urinary tract infections, and they can't even feel it you if they're on this SIP seven to seven, unlikely that they will have another flare up. And the timing with a bit is very important. So again, the distribution, you can't achieve it with any other protocol. It has to be distributed because of the we can't accumulate. It's a water soluble vitamin micronutrient, right? It's essential to our existence. It affects, as you already learning, affects every organ in our body, and it's constantly has to be replenished, and if you make it into a habit to have that SIP seven to seven bottle with you all the time, and take a sip every 2030, minutes. Those levels are maintained, just like with hormones, right? And if they have a spike in, in, in their metabolic requirement, because something else happened? Okay, they didn't sleep. They over trained, they overworked. Something else is going on? Well, these intake might need to be increased, but let's get back to the UTI. If that woman takes another dose, even a smaller dose, can be half a teaspoon before bedtime. Now she's the one that has chronic UTIs. She does it seven to seven throughout the day. Takes another dose prophylactin Before daytime. She's not going to wake up with a flare up even after intercourse, right? The same thing very I mean, the the results that we're seeing with patients with shingles are profound. I can have even severe shingles outbreak. And with a patient that will be able to touch their lesions within a couple of hours, no pain, and it will cut the duration of the flare up, or the duration of the outbreak, to down to five to seven days. They're already crossing. And I'll bring these examples that I've seen with patients during the course, but the resolution is very, very quick, so if it's regularly, can last for weeks. Now, you're down to maybe five to seven days and no pain, because remember, I mentioned to you, it's also an anti inflammatory and analgesic, since resolves both viral

Speaker 4  2:25:20
and bacterial infections, right? So, yeah, that's one of the nastier ones to handle post shingle pain. So that's why it's a good thing. Now you're adding that to the arsenal, because we just have Gabapentin Lyrica for that. You're not going

Speaker 2  2:25:34
to be using it, right? I will share with you protocols that are mind blowing, even with the most severe, you know, flare ups. And these are studies that actually not US based studies with images that have been demonstrated. It's it's phenomenal. What you can do with with this, I call it the legal magic dust. Now, I was just stopped at the airport the other day because I told you, I never travel without it, and I always have these on me, and especially once I get through a security I get a bottle of water and I load up on this now, at that point, very quickly, because I said before, as I'm driving, I want to make sure that I'm loaded, and then during the trip. Well, I wasn't thinking I was actually coming from one of the conference and I packed two of these in my carry on, and I was stopped, and I couldn't understand why they were flagging me and searching my carry on, and that's because I had the magic dust on me, and I had to show them that it was sealed and it was a legal, a legal white powder. Um, but there are protocols where actually you're going to be inhaling it, yes, snorting it, and it's very fast acting. And I always say with it, with a smile on my face, don't do it

Speaker 4  2:26:55
in a public place, like an airport. Yeah. Well, here's the last question for the email you mentioned about a slide a while ago that you have to have normal kidney functions. What if a patient has lower GFR than the normal How could you adjust your vitamin C? Or should it not be given like, what are your thoughts on this? And this is

Speaker 2  2:27:19
a common clinical you know, there's different school of thoughts if you're going to be very conservative and it's about your liability and your license, some providers will choose, well, if they have compromised renal functions, they're not going to administering high dose vitamin C, as simple as that. Others, especially in oncological settings, older patients are compromised. It's life or death situation. We know that in terms of efficacy, as I mentioned to you before, vitamin C, high dose for cancer, comes first. I'm not saying to you not to double down and and and use everything with it that you you can and have access to I'm saying that in terms of efficacy, it comes first, and many of these patients do have renal issues, and they do still get high dose IVC, but these patients Have to be closely monitored so it's really your individual comfort level as a physician and how comfortable you are when monitoring someone that has potential contraindications, like fluid overdose, overload, as I said, congestive heart failure or malignant or malignant, asitis or renal. Yeah, for most parts, as I said, there is no issues with high dose IVC, but there's always an exception to the rule, and you need to be cognizant of it, that it will require much, you know, closely, close monitoring

Speaker 4  2:28:49
with these patients, right? Well, share the earth. Thank you so much for knocking out all my questions. It was, it was awesome. It was a great talk. And thank you for enlightening us, for learning more about vitamin C. Thank

Unknown Speaker  2:29:01
you so much. Thank you. I appreciate

Bill Clearfield  2:29:04
being here today, and thank you so much. It was a pleasure having you. And thank you, Bill, can you put it? Can you put in the chat, your email address there were, there were questions about where they can get vitamin C. You know your vitamin

Speaker 2  2:29:22
C products. Let me just share that. Okay, chat, chat, chat, there it goes. I will provide you.

Unknown Speaker  2:29:33
Hold on one second. I

Speaker 2  2:29:39
I will provide you with both of our email I mean, website addresses, one for the certification course that starts on August 4. I cannot say enough about it, because it will literally change your practice in so many ways. I don't say it lightly. I've been doing it for years. I used to do it more often, but it takes such a toll on me. It's such a huge commitment. I now do it twice a year. I do teach private seminars all the time condensed. It's a two day full two day seminars. If you're a larger practice, it makes sense to do that, otherwise, take advantage of the group webinar on August 4. We've had practices that join from all over the world, some of them, it's maybe 2am and they still do this. And many of them repeated the scores because there's so much information. And every time they say, Oh, I've learned something else. I've learned something else. I tried to update it. So that's all on BCI, CI. I just shared the website, and then the product in information, you do have to create an account. And because pure C is not marketed, it is word of mouth. For some reason, it didn't come as a hyperlink, but you can see, I'll try again. I don't know why I did that. Can everybody see that in the chat? Yeah, no. Okay, here's a hyperlink. So on pure C, just click on the top. There should be healthcare, healthcare provider application. Fill out this application in its entirety, because each clinic is vetted by our staff members, and we want to know who's coming in, and make sure that you you just specify how you heard about pure see, in this particular instance, it's maybe Dr Clearfield podcast, and and then once you receive the the email approving your application, you're ready to go. It will have all the instructions. Do read the instructions, but most of these things I kind of already mentioned to you, and, well, you just made it a hyperlink. That's all okay with it's a capital C, but I don't think it's going to make a difference. It's all all caps, the P, the P, P, u, r, dash, c.com, and, yeah, so fill out the provider's application, I will tell you, and I'm not exaggerating, it's been very difficult to source and manufacture, and we have a proprietary manufacturing process and standards to assure this purity that translate to clinical efficacy. And in the past, just so you know, we only had this product, and this was our flagship. This is what is used in clinical application. If you go most of PRC providers, pretty much everybody, is a VC ICICI member. If you go to the vcici website as a member, log in and go to the library, there's a lot of information and preparation instructions. If you wanted to get started right away legally, I cannot even provide you. We cannot provide you any information through pure C you. It's simply your portal to order your supplies period, all the information on how to be taught in that certification course. And there are videos and preparation instructions in the library of VC ICICI. So this was the product which I mentioned to you. Is used clinically. It's called, let me see what a minute Ultra. See here. Here it goes Ultra. See an ultra. Sea comes to you, and beautiful white powder, as fresh as can be, as pure as can be, 50 grams, so it's double what you're getting in those vials that are already compromised and has short shelf life. I have brought now I'm in Florida. I have products, bottles here that are six, seven years old. They're still potent. Climate control environments. So if you are in Nevada, you're good. I mean, if you're in a client now we ship to countries like Asian, countries New Zealand, very humid climate. Singapore, the most humid that you can imagine being there. It's right next to the equator. So if you keep it in a climate controlled environment, you have very long shelf life. The only time you have to refrigerate it, once it's reconstituted, and once it's reconstituted, it's all about potency, right? So we recommend use it ideally, within 48 hours, or maximum five days. Any ascorbate that is reconstituted is going the clock is ticking, even with a score bit, which is much more stable. Now with this particular product, if you can see here, I don't know if the light

Unknown Speaker  2:34:35
will allow it,

Speaker 2  2:34:39
you'll have to go there's the access point, and I think the light is not allowing me to use it. But basically, you never even open it. The clinical settings, you never break the seal of this bottle. The instructions of how to are all in that VC ICICI library. Takes you two minutes to prepare it, and off you go. So in the past, because we didn't have the SMC, clinicians were reselling this product for oral use or other application, inhalation, nebulization, nail pods, topicals, etc, to patients to go home. It is not cost effective. It is a more expensive product than this. Okay, they're prepared differently. You get 50 grams here. You get 250 grams here. And when you go into pure C portal after you become an approved provider, you will see the breakdown of pricing because we are distributors on the pure sea side, we sell exclusively and directly in high volume to practices. So this is a case of 150 not saying you have to buy 150 I'm saying that most cost effective price is when you buy it per case, because we work with practices all over the world to treat cancer, they might need a case a week or more, and you will learn how to calculate it. Calculate based on determining the optimal dosing for your patients, how to measure it, and all of that in that course. So anyway, because they were selling it and it became so popular, we then developed this to provide a more cost effective this is the calls that we get from all the patients, and we do not sell it to patients. So we need you to sell it to patients. If you don't want to ship it to them, you can order it and drop ship it to them on this portal. So you can order it yourself directly with your credit card, your name as a physician, but it's going to be shipped directly to your patients. Okay, they can't get around you. They have to order it from you, and you have to provide them with clinical instructions of how to use it. So we developed this, and because it's so effective in so many applications and it's broad, as I said, you prepare it in so many different ways, we have hard time keeping it available at all times. And this product sells very quickly. And it's available, as I said, in a jar of 250 so again, this is 50 clinical applications only, only in office. Use, off label. Use, whether you're using it intraoperatively or IV, but this is what you resell for home use. Now, these are sold in volume, bulk. We don't have it in a box you can order. I think the minimum that you order these things. Don't quote me on this, but I believe the minimum is 100 I want to say, but because they go so quickly, and it's part of any treatment protocols, they ordered in the hundreds or sometimes in 1000s, but all of these options are

Unknown Speaker  2:37:58
on that website.

Speaker 2  2:38:03
Okay, any additional questions? I thank you all for tolerating me for almost two hours, and as I said, hopefully I'll see you at the certification course. I know I will see Bill Dr Clearfield presenting in our symposium, and I hope that you will join us to celebrate science on the most beautiful beach in the

Bill Clearfield  2:38:31
country. Thank you. There we go. Okay, thank you so much. All right, just real quick for whoever's left next week, we have Jordan Hamlin. He's a consultant on photo bio modulation, harnessing the power of light for well being, and he's certified in neurofeedback. So that's next week. I know it's late. Everybody wants to get going here. Thank you again. Leor. Dr Quinn, do you have anything real quick for the

Speaker 5  2:39:02
No, not really. I won't take up any time. We're just moving ahead on our certification and getting the education

Speaker 2  2:39:09
platform together. Okay, well, again, if you have a quick question on the roll, if you have a quick question,

Bill Clearfield  2:39:15
I'll be happy to answer. Okay, we're all good. In

Speaker 2  2:39:20
any event, if you'd like to reach me directly, I'm going to send you one more email here if you have a clinical question.

Speaker 2  2:39:35
Yeah, I'm sharing with you. Hold on. Some reason it's not

Unknown Speaker  2:39:41
cooperating. All right?

Unknown Speaker  2:39:48
I think I did it. There

Bill Clearfield  2:39:50
you go. That is my direct email. There you go, and I have it also. So if anybody wants it, so again. Okay, happy to All right, everybody. Thank you so much. And if you're in the San Francisco area next week, July 10, I am speaking at the androgen society with the esteemed Dr Morgan teller, who's the host. So we're moving up in the world. Guys,

Unknown Speaker  2:40:13
fantastic. I appreciate your

Bill Clearfield  2:40:15
support. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Thank you all, we'll see you again. Lee where I will send you the video when when it's done and we'll send you the

Speaker 2  2:40:23
participant list also, so if you want. Thank you so much, I would love to follow up

Bill Clearfield  2:40:27
with everyone. Okay, thank you so much.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai