Unknown Speaker  00:42
You The Hey, John,

Unknown Speaker  00:45
how you doing? Bill,

Unknown Speaker  00:47
okay.

Speaker 1  00:49
You know, you sent a script for me about four months ago, probably compounding pharmacy. Anyway, I just, I tell you, it still hasn't been filled yet. So things are a little slow in the neck of the woods around here. Oh, why not? I don't know. They don't have a good excuse. The compounding farmer sends it off to another compounding pharmacy place anyway.

Bill Clearfield  01:19
Well, then we should send it to a different place. Yes, maybe

Speaker 1  01:24
I'm doing good. Next week I go to Hawaii for my daughter's wedding and,

Bill Clearfield  01:30
well, there you go. Okay, that's better.

Unknown Speaker  01:34
That'll be good. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:35
I'm, I'm going to, I see our, get our speakers here, so we'll try to be nice to her. Sorry about the mix up from last week. No problem. So okay, so we usually get started a little bit after five. Dr Nario, who's not on yet, he's taking a Dr Andrew Wiles integrative medicine fellowship. So he always gives us a tip of the week, so we don't have the rest of us don't have to go do that. And most of our folks filter in, you know, right around then, and they'll, they'll come in. We've had some even show up around quarter to five, quarter to six, six o'clock even. Okay, so we just kind of hang out for now. And if you have, you know, we kind of banter. The Dr Burgess over there is my right hand person, and so we're two old warriors licking our chops and trying to hang on here. So

Speaker 1  02:41
we're trying to bring in young blood, like you, yeah, like you.

Unknown Speaker  02:47
Well, I'm glad, thank you. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:49
well, Dr Nario is young, so,

Speaker 1  02:51
yeah, he's a baby. Yeah, I

Bill Clearfield  02:54
think he's about 40 So, and he never says anything here, but I Dr Renz is here every week. He's one of he's one of the real old old timers. So he's one of the originals, right?

Speaker 1  03:09
Bill and I came came across a few years ago, 456, but anyway, Dr Renza has been a trooper and put this together for the last 50 years.

Bill Clearfield  03:22
Yeah, this, this group's actually been around since 1972 Believe it or not, wow, I'm just a young guy. Yeah, you're just a kid.

Speaker 2  03:33
I'm looking forward to the Eagles starting their training camp.

Bill Clearfield  03:36
Yeah, you know, I think it's going to be like the last time we're you're going to be in for kind of a big disappointment half the teams on other teams now, unfortunately, they lost a lot of defensive players. Yeah. So, so we're, we're both from Philadelphia, though, even though I live in Nevada now. So, so, so forgive us. And if I was to get rid of this background here, oh, sorry about that, I have even a just my background. Let's see. You can see what I actually have behind me here. See that? All right, yeah, so, yeah, we I've had that there for for quite a while. It's not a, it's not, I'm not a Johnny Come Lately, I've been, I was around for all the two and 12 seasons, like 20 in a row. They were bad times. Uh, yeah. Well, see it. And then the real, the real issue is, is that, like, I was in Boston in 2004 when the Red Sox won the World Series after a bit, after 60 years, and nobody knows how to act when you win. We know how to we know how we know how to behave when we lose. We're really good at that. So Stefan, I see is bet you back from from Europe?

Unknown Speaker  05:04
Yes, I am back. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  05:06
How did you do? How was your How was your tournament?

Speaker 3  05:10
The tournaments were all right. I took me some getting used to playing on the red clay, but it was fun playing all over the Europe. That's great,

Unknown Speaker  05:20
yeah.

Bill Clearfield  05:22
And I'm sure you're the world champ, right?

Speaker 3  05:25
No, no, back to the drawing board. Back to training here.

Bill Clearfield  05:31
Okay, you lose it quick, don't you?

Speaker 3  05:35
Yeah, does take this you lose it quick if you're not practicing

Bill Clearfield  05:41
a lot. So I know that this job gets in the way.

Speaker 3  05:45
I mean, I actually practice tennis every day when I'm here in Florida.

Bill Clearfield  05:53
No, I know. But when you're practicing to compete, I think it's a little different, right?

Speaker 3  06:02
No, I'm practicing a lot, and I'm practicing every morning, typically, and then oftentimes in the evening as well. So I'll hit it even twice a day.

Bill Clearfield  06:11
Okay, yeah, all right. You weren't too impressed with the conference there.

Speaker 3  06:18
Yeah, it's pretty bad. I think, you know, my lecture was the best, just objectively speaking, like I'm a good speaker. The one with Dr Anna Forbes was good. So I did set up an account with that, that microtherapy, that German microtherapy. And so I'm doing their studies, I'm doing their modules to learn it and apply this, this therapy, and then I'll be able to order it from Germany. Is this apotec in Germany supplies the micro immunotherapy. And so I think micro immunotherapy is like the answer to these patients with th 17 elevations, their immune systems dysregulated, and then they have stealth infections. On top of

Bill Clearfield  07:05
it, you're gonna throw Dr Halas into a tizzy,

Speaker 3  07:10
yeah, no, I'll definitely give a lecture on this at some point, once I've experimented with it and seen the results in real time, you know, it's held all this promise. Seems good research, at least from the the German Research. I mean, I'll give it a shot of anything go, especially for some of these patients who are suffering a

Bill Clearfield  07:34
lot. Okay, we have another, another blast from the past. Kathleen O'Neil Smith, wow, long time. No, see, how are you

Bill Clearfield  07:53
talking? You did? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  07:55
She's unmute herself.

Bill Clearfield  07:58
Okay. So anyway. Dr Smith, how are you? It's been a long time,

Bill Clearfield  08:17
right? Well. Dr Nario, what's what's the latest?

Speaker 4  08:23
What's the latest and the greatest? You got my emails for the hotels? Yeah, yeah. So just tell me how you want to advance with that.

Bill Clearfield  08:37
I mean, what do you what do you think's a reasonable showing? 5060, yeah. I mean, I was, I was always afraid we were going to get caught having to pay for hotel rooms that we could didn't use. That was always the that was always the the

Speaker 4  08:56
issue, I think 60 is a safe number. I mean, we can increase that number as we move on, right, right? I don't know if we can get in trouble if we get get that number. And I don't think that's hard to meet with these three. It's, I think if three groups that we're going to merge in this conference, right, right? So I think, yeah, 60 to 70 would be a good number for now. Okay, so this is, I mean, for everyone listening, this is the conference that we're planning to do here in we know, and the date is kind of still up in the air, just because, I think our original date that is not available in one of the possible venues. So we have to move that, I think on the latter part of November,

Speaker 2  09:47
is it alright to ask a question before you ramp up here. Sure, anybody in the group, or you guys work with anybody that has neural sarcoidosis of their spinal cord.

Unknown Speaker  10:03
Oh, wow, that's a tough one. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  10:06
that's not a that's not a usual one.

Speaker 2  10:09
Yeah, I know. And I was looking for interleukin inhibitors, and it turns out that rapamycin inhibits two of them involved. And I just didn't know if anyone's had any experience with neurosarcovid A family call.

Bill Clearfield  10:30
The person to ask would be Ross Pelton and about neurosarcoid? Yeah. Well, about rapamycin? Oh,

Speaker 2  10:41
okay, yeah, yeah, I got that, yeah. I might end up using it with this guy. He's about 70 years old, and two and a half years ago, spontaneously woke up nearly paralyzed, and it's a combination of either disc disease, neurosarcoid, and he's and epmc, Cleveland Clinic, all the specialists he's been to around the country, been to Mexico, they're all striking out so and it seems like he has complex, regional pain syndrome from his waist down that is extraordinarily painful and causes spasms. And anyway, just thought I'd ask the brain thrust. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  11:22
anybody have anything out there?

Speaker 4  11:25
I had a cardiac sarcoidosis, and he passed away. Yeah, I don't think that's helpful, but, but I just it's, it's rare, yeah, and it's hard to treat, unfortunately, especially when it goes those to those vital organs already, yeah,

Speaker 2  11:46
well, anyway, yeah, I'll let you know if I have some progress.

Unknown Speaker  11:51
Alright, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  11:52
but, but Ross Pelton would be a good resource for Yeah, rapamycin. So hey, if you need his contact, let me know.

Speaker 2  12:03
All right, how could I get a hold of you? Yeah, all right.

Bill Clearfield  12:11
You get my email every week. Yeah,

Speaker 2  12:13
but I didn't know if you see the reply and it gets buried. You're busy

Bill Clearfield  12:17
it, you know, it depends, you know, with, you know anybody on the group here, I try to make pretend I don't know them. So, so, all right. Dr Nario, you What do you got for us?

Speaker 4  12:32
All right, so our Tip of the Week today is going to be about PCOS supplements. So PCOS is one of the most common endocrine disorders in the reproductive age women, affecting up to 10% so this is something we see most of the time in our practices, while conventional options like Metformin or oral contraceptives remains first line. Many patients today seek natural alternatives that we offer in our arsenal, among the most research are the ones that we actually use a lot of which improves insulin sensitivity and helps restore ovulation. Another is Berberine, often called the natural Metformin for its ability to regulate glucose and lipids. Well less known in this closet of ours, but gaining attention is Tribulus terrestris, also known as puncture vine or Caltrop, traditionally used in Ayurveda and Chinese medicine, it's best known for supporting libido and Male Vitality, for the thought that it raises or supports testosterone naturally. That raises concerns that this herb raise testosterone in women, especially in PCOS, where androgens are already elevated. The good news is that human studies show it does not give it significantly raise testosterone. Even in men, it's libido effects seem more related to dopamine activity or improved circulation, not direct hormonal spikes. So in women with PCOS, Tribulus appears to work differently instead it, instead of boosting testosterone, it seems to modulate LH and normalize LH and FSH ratio, which is often disrupted in PCOS and leads to ovulatory dysfunction. So two notable studies supports this randomized, controlled trial in logical endocrinology found that 750 milligrams per day of standard extract for three months led to a significant reduction in LH and improvements in ovulation. Prospective cohort study in Phytomedicine using the same dose for two to three months reported similar outcomes, again, restored ovulation in women with an ovulatory PCOS so Tribulus is generally well tolerated. The most common side effects are mild G upsets like nausea or cramping. It's not advised during pregnancy or for those with hormone sensitive cancers. The typical dose ranges from 250, to 750, milligrams per day, and standardized is extract is important to ensure quality and consistency. So in summary, Tribulus terrestries may offer a safe and effective option to support hormonal balance and ovulation in women with PCOS without exacerbating testosterone levels. When paired with, I guess, inositol and Berberine, it can be part of a well rounded integrative fertility protocol. As always, treatment should be personalized, labs monitored and therapies guided by evidence, not tradition alone. So that's our Andrew wild tip of the league.

Bill Clearfield  15:35
Okay, very good. And if you had been paying attention to some of the lectures that we've given in the past, particularly spotlight on non hormonal remedies to manipulate hormones. You will have you may remember that we did discuss this, that it was not extremely effective for raising testosterone levels. It significantly decreases sex hormone binding globulin also, although so that will sort of give you a relative increase in testosterone if they have high sex hormone binding globulin.

Unknown Speaker  16:08
Can you repeat the spelling of the name?

Bill Clearfield  16:12
Can you type in the in the Yeah, I'll try to chat there the spelling of the name.

Unknown Speaker  16:19
Oh, sorry, hold on.

Unknown Speaker  16:29
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  16:32
Okay, so that's so we've been we've been up on this for for a long, long time, but thank you for reminding us. So see, remember, we're on the cutting edge here. You know our group. So we've been, we've been, we've been hearing about these kinds of remedies for at least five years. So we're way ahead of Dr Weil here, he's got the beard, so

Speaker 4  16:59
yeah, I hope they don't hear the leaking of information.

Bill Clearfield  17:07
Yeah. So there was a question with Dr Nario, if you can forward the the put us, give us a link, or if you're reading from an article or something, yeah, we'll do that. He's out there, okay, all right, and she's been waiting patiently. So I want to introduce our speaker tonight. Her name is Jordan Hamblin. She's a consultant for using transcranial photo modulation for mental wellness. She's board certified in Neurofeedback and certified as a heart math coach, and she brings us a unique combination of technical expertise, critical thinking and compassionate client support to her work. She's passionate about bridging cutting edge science and practical applications, and she's dedicated to advancing the understanding of light therapy in the role of wellness. And so I bring you Ms Jordan Nelson, or Jordan Nelson. Jordan Hamlin, sorry about that. You're muted, so we need you to unmute.

Speaker 5  18:07
Thank you so much. There you go. Thank you, and sorry. I'm just gonna pull up my slideshow. I uh,

Bill Clearfield  18:27
and there you go.

Speaker 5  18:32
All right, so thank you so much. Yeah, I'm really excited to be here today to talk about photobiomodulation. This is something that I've become really passionate about over the past couple of years. I think there's so much to this science and so much promise for the future. So I get really excited about opportunities when I can just kind of provide some education around this. So just to go over some points, I'll just be defining photobiomodulations, providing some examples of how it's used, the mechanisms of action that we do understand or think we do, applications of transcranial photobiomodulation, which is what I specialize in. And just some considerations, if you are looking to either use photobiomodulation for yourself or integrate it into a clinic. So first, what is light therapy? So photo therapy, or can also sometimes be low level laser therapy. Or low level light therapy refers to the use of specific frequencies of light to support health and wellness. So this is looking at all different forms of light and what ways they interact with our biology. Photobiomodulation, on the other hand, typically refers specifically to red or near infrared light, whereas phototherapy, again, is that full range where we're looking even into UV and blue light. So just to clarify where this differentiation comes into play, with saying photobiomodulation. So just looking at the popularity over the past 10 years of people searching specifically for photobiomodulation, can see that, especially since 2021 there's been a pretty significant uptick of it, and even this is a pretty specific word. So just looking for light therapy in general, we're seeing the same kinds of trends. So obviously this is starting to kind of gain a lot more popularity with the general population. So what are some of the things to consider when just looking at light in general, we can think about even our room lighting. So part of some of the issues that we've seen that come into modern day is that we have more issues with energy issues with kind of this brain fog and cognition, and a lot of it is from moving indoors. Now. We're not getting quite the same amount of energy that we got from the sun before. So we see people moving inside, we're just kind of limiting in that exposure, and so now we're getting a lot more of these feelings, apathy and fatigue, focus and more. We also know, on the other hand, too much blue light exposure can disrupt sleep. So I put this little image in the corner of a person sitting in their bed, scrolling on their phone. This is that direct blue light that we're getting, which signals to the brain it's time to wake up. This is daytime for us now, which definitely don't need at night. And then the interesting point that I just wanted to include in here is that there's also a small research study that was looking at the impact fluorescent lights, or these very blue heavy lights, had on prisoners and their mental health, and it came back showing that, yes, indeed, there was an impact from having this, from the sleep dysregulation and mood dysregulation that resulted from it. So different hues of light can impact our mood or energy levels and ability to concentrate. So it's something to think about when we have lighting in a room about what kind of mood you're trying to facilitate. For instance, if we're in the daytime, you know, particularly in the morning, you want to have exposure to more of this blue light. This is what can stimulate us to be able to get done with our daily task. However, in the evening, we don't really want that exposure because of its ability to disrupt our sleep. Another thing to consider is forest bathing. We've known that green light seems to be the easiest for eyes to the human eye to be able to process. So forest bathing can be a very calming thing for people. So even thinking about natural light around us, and then the two other lights that come with this are migraine lights, which are green lights specifically used for migraines. So they require somebody to kind of be in a dark room, turn off all of their lights. And then you can use this migraine light that's green. People get really good relief from this. And also the sad lights for the seasonal affective disorder, people using more of those full spectrum lights, especially in the darker months, to be able to boost some of that energy and cognitive energy. And there's other uses for this as well, such as visual light stimulation. So here's just a device that's down on the bottom. This one is looking at properties of entrainment to support cognition. So these are looking towards, you know, both healthy individuals and cognitively impaired individuals to use entrainment principles. Essentially, we're pulsing at a specific rate to induce specific neurological changes. So this device has been around for quite some time, and it can be used to help support focus, sleep, energy, etc. On the other side, we do have that it's kind of operates by inducing a hypnagogic state. So while this can be used for supporting sleep, focus or energy can also be used as an alternative to some of the psychedelic therapies, not everybody is a great candidate for doing psychedelics, or they just don't have the proper support system with them. So having an alternative that's a natural thing, like just using flashing light to be able to induce some of the same properties you get with hallucinogens can be a safer alternative, especially then as soon as the light stops, people can just get in their car and drive home. But then there's a lot of clinical applications of photobiomodulation. So this is a massively long list that I'm definitely not going to go through all of these, and this is also not exhaustive. These are just some of the common things where photobiomodulation is used. And also, just to clarify, this actually does include some blue lights in it as well. It's not just red and infrared, but some of the main categories where a lot of this research is going on. Big one is in dentistry, interestingly enough, so here you can see somebody getting, you know, a placement cured. So this is something that probably a lot of us have experienced going into the dentist, but it's also being used for things like having, you know, issues of tissue regeneration. It's also looking at infections or surgeries that people have and difficulties of healing afterwards. Light can be used in those situations. Other ones are for eye related issues. So this is really kind of an emerging field at this point. Dry eye disease seems to be sort of the main focus, but I think there's a lot of promise for glaucoma, and I think we'll hopefully be seeing more of this, and possibly other eye diseases as well, and we also see it for injury recovery. So people using this, you know, for mild aches and pains that they have, or just, you know, overuse, things like that. So this is an example on the side of one of these flexible pads. So you can see that it could be wrapped around for the knee, it could be used for the shoulder, but you could even be wrapping it around your leg or an arm or something else. So these flexible pads can be really helpful for injury recovery. There is, though, on the other side in the clinical model, people using lasers, and they're more of those handheld pointers. These are much higher power, so they're typically operated by clinicians specifically, but they can be used in clinical settings as well to be helpful for injury recovery and then gut health. This is obviously not a an anatomically correct picture here on the side, but I thought it was really important to mention this. This is also an emerging field of research that's been coming up with photobiomodulation, and what we're seeing is that there's some type of influence on gut health. It's really not super understood outside of we understand that there's a decrease in inflammation and there seems to be some rebalancing going on, if we look into specific biomarkers, but ultimately, we don't know exactly. I just think it's an important thing to be able to mention in this, especially when we're seeing the role of it in neurodegenerative diseases. Having something that can help with gut health earlier on might be helpful for these outcomes later into these diagnoses. And then there's some general wellness. You might have seen these, these light masks that people have that's to help with either wrinkles or acne. There's these red light hats that are there to help with hair growth in the corner. I don't think that was actually an infrared sauna, but since infrared light can't be pictured, it's a lot easier just to get a regular sauna. But Infrared Saunas are popping up a lot more now too, because we're seeing more of these benefits from it. So just to point out why these, all these different places, are starting to implement this, why it's becoming more of even a home use device, is that the safety involved with all of it. Photobiomodulation is considered well tolerated by most individuals, so it's considered a wellness device, especially when we're looking at LEDs versus lasers. LEDs have a significantly lower heating factor compared to the lasers, so that risk is even more mitigated,

Speaker 5  28:18
and studies have even been conducted with children as early as five years old, and honestly, there's probably even younger at this point too. And to point out, even newborns have experienced light therapy being exposed to UV Blue light if they have jaundice as a child. So how does this actually work? So looking at light, and in particular from the sun, we see 10% of it is about that UV light, 40% is visible light, but 50% of it is infrared light. So this is where us moving indoors, not getting as much of that exposure. This is a significant amount of the sun's light. That's infrared light that we're missing out. So the reason that we look at infrared light in particular is for its penetration. So here on the side, I do have a couple of examples looking from that blue. And really, actually, that's from the UV into blue, green and then red, near infrared light. And you can see as they start getting from that blue UV side of it over to that red and near infrared light, you have much greater levels of penetration. So when you're thinking about what you're trying to use the light for, it's important to consider that when you're thinking about what kind of wavelengths will be necessary for that. But there's more than that than just the wavelength. The other things to consider are tissue composition. If, for instance, we're looking to apply light to the head, it's a lot different than if we're applying light to the stomach. You have to get through hair and skull and meninges just to make it to the brain tissue, versus on our stomach. We don't have a hard shell on the outside that we have to get through just to make it to the stomach. So thinking about that, tissue composition is really important. The coherence of the light is another important consideration. While LEDs have a lot less heat factor that's involved with it, they also have less coherence. So you might have to have longer treatment periods versus a laser which has high coherence, you might not need quite as long of treatment periods. Pulsing of the light can be an important factor too. It seems to be a lot less so. When we're looking at the body, typically, most of these devices just kind of have a constant wave or 10 hertz pulse rate. But when you're looking into the brain, there's a lot more variety that we're starting to see. And again, research is really just kind of emerging on this, but there's much more options that we're seeing. The irradiance is really important to consider, because this is part of where we run into issues with a lot of these devices that are on the market, is that their irradiance is actually so minuscule that there's no possible therapeutic properties of it. So having an understanding of this is really important. A lot of companies don't necessarily provide this outright, but being able to figure it out is a good thing to do. The beam size is also important. So just thinking about how much area that you're needing to cover and the beam size will determine that as well the angle of penetration. So part of it is, there's these great panels that are out there. Those are fantastic, but it's not going to be as great, for instance, for trying to target the brain, because it's just a flat panel. You might want something that's going to be curving a little bit more, or like in that other slide that I showed where the person had a wrap around their knee. It's something where you needed it to be more form fitting for the knee. It wouldn't work as well to just have a panel. The distance from the body is really important. People think if they're just like a couple of inches and fully clothed from the light, that they're going to get benefits. That's not true. Really. Once you start moving about an inch away, you're losing a significant amount of the light. So it's really important to be as close to it as possible. And also clothing will definitely block any of the light as well. And that last one is just looking at the dosage for it, which I'll get into a little bit later into this as well, but that's just giving you the formula for it. So what happens when the light is interacting with the body? Well, one of the things that we do see is that there is an activation of these TRP the transient receptor potential channels. In particular, we do see a modulation of TRPV. One with this, we are seeing that it potentially could be part of what's helping photobiomodulation to decrease pain sensations in individuals, but there might be other mechanisms going on with this as well. The next and most commonly talked about mechanism of action is through the mitochondrial activation. In particular, we look at the chromophore cytochrome c oxidase, and this absorbs photons that are in that red and near infrared light range. Cytochrome c oxidase is one of the precursors that helps to produce ATP. So once you have a greater activation of this and we have a greater production of ATP. And ATP is a primary cellular energy molecule. It's able to travel through the body, and then it can end up knocking out nitric oxide that's blocking cells from receiving oxygen, and therefore it can provide more nutrient delivery to the cells, as well as increasing blood flow. On the other side of this, we have a reduction of oxidative stress. So while we're having that knocking out from this nitric oxide so that we're getting greater blood flow, there's also an interaction with reactive oxygen species. So this is the other side of stressing the cells, so that we start to signal the body to have these recovery processes activated for themselves. So we're kind of building strength like you would if you were doing weight training, for instance. So we interact. We kind of increase this, our OS presence that signals the body that it needs to be coming into action, and then that's how we get some of these benefits from just the light interacting. So what does this end up resulting in? Obviously, those things on their own are just important, but some of the outcomes, especially looking transcranially, we see that there's a neuro protective factor. So this interaction that we see with the R, O S, where once we have this increase in it, the body is getting stimulated to have its own processes activated. This helps the cells to have greater resiliency against future injury. So again, it's like that working out if you're building up a little more muscle, you're going to be less likely to be injured from a light hit. The other thing that it does is that it has an up regulation of the brain derived neurotrophic factor. So this is a crucial protein supporting the survival of existing neurons, but it also encourages the growth and differentiation of new neurons and synapses. So especially once somebody has had an injury of some sort, this can be a really helpful and important thing for their recovery. Some additional mechanisms that I just thought should be pointed out, even though they're maybe not as well understood also, neither of these images on the side are in any way accurate, so please don't take them and try to use them in any other way. So there is an up regulation of anti inflammatory cytokines. In particular, one of them is an interleukin 10. So this can be really helpful for the body to decrease inflammation, there's support for the integrity of the blood brain barrier. So we're seeing more so that, you know, the blood brain barrier is essentially able to do its job more effectively. And we're seeing support for glymphatic drainage. This is still really new in the research, and I know, somewhat controversial, but it does seem that, especially using infrared light at night, in particular if people can while they're sleeping, we're seeing an improvement in glymphatic drainage, which is especially helpful for some of these neurodegenerative diseases. So the overall benefits from all of this, we're seeing an increase in the cellular respiration, therefore more ATP is being produced when we see a reduction in inflammation, especially important in neural inflammation, and an improvement in blood flow. So how does the light actually work? Because all of these things sound great, so wouldn't you just want to do more and more and more of them. Well, unfortunately, that's definitely not how it works. Since we're looking at that idea of stressing the body just enough so that its own processes are activated, we don't want to stress it too much. Again, we can go back to that gym sort of metaphor here. If I went into the gym and tried to lift 100 pound dumbbell, I would definitely get injured. I'd like to think that I'm really strong, but I'm not that strong. It's just going to be too much for me. In fact, I wouldn't be able to lift it, let's just be honest. So you want to find this sweet spot where you're pushing your body enough, but we're not pushing it over the edge. So we're looking at kind of that optimal dose for a lot of people that tends to be typically once or twice a day of using some device. And again, that time can end up varying. There's quite a few pieces of literature that are out there that kind of give this very specific time you know that you're supposed to do it. It varies depending on the device. So this optimal dose depends on what the actual device is doing.

Speaker 5  38:14
So let's look at some of the applications when we're looking at transcranial photobiomodulation. So some examples are stroke. So there's quite a bit of research that's gone into stroke. It's still something that has very small amounts of participants, ultimately. So a lot of the research is new, but there are some promising results that are coming out in one particular one they are looking at aphasia after stroke. Individuals in this study just did 18 sessions and showed significant improvement compared to the control. Again, it was only six individuals, and they were in particular, chronic stroke patients. But nonetheless, it's something promising. We also see an improvement in promoting neurogenesis after stroke. So this was seven days in a row that the rats in this particular case were having infrared light applied to their brain, and then they looked at what the responses were. So we saw a promoting of cellular proliferation and a decreasing of pro inflammatory cytokines, I'm sorry, pro inflammatory microglials. We also have long COVID. So in long COVID, this was looking in particular, at individuals who were reporting sustained issues with brain fog, just kind of cognitive energy overall. So all of these people were had been diagnosed with COVID and had since technically recovered, but still had these lasting issues. This particular study looked at individuals who were just using a helmet with infrared light versus individuals who are using the full body photobiomodulation, and both of them had significant improvements compared to the control group that did not receive either of these another area that's been coming up more so is depression. There's actually some studies that are also looking at some of the anxiety, but depression seems to be a bigger focus right now, and we're seeing that with these studies. Again, we're still having small populations, but they're reporting improvements in symptom severity. So there's also looking at injury recovery. So we have TBI is and in particular, CTE, which typically is only diagnosed, you know, once somebody has died. But I think there's increased recognition now that this is something that does appear earlier in life, and perhaps could possibly even be mitigated. So they did a study with 61 former athletes who had repeated head injuries, which is something that can be a, you know, solid indication, potentially for CTE, and they showed that either after eight or 10 weeks of using transcranial photobiomodulation, they were showing significant improvements on cognitive testing. So even though these were athletes who had it, had injuries years beforehand,

Speaker 4  41:40
beginning Jordans, okay?

Speaker 5  41:48
So even though these athletes had injuries long, long time ago, years prior, they were still showing that they were having improvements in their cognitive testing. So it's a really hopeful thing to look at for even people who had brain injuries that aren't recent and they still have issues from them, they also showed in another study that they that using photobiomodulation helped to prevent apoptosis. It supported repair of axonal damage in the nerve fibers and promoted homeostasis and cells impacted by excitotoxicity. And then we also have post concussion. So maybe the ones who aren't quite as extreme as TBI or repeated head injuries but still struggling. There's millions of people who are diagnosed with concussions. It is quite a common thing, and we see that with people using photobiomodulation, they were reporting improved cognitive efficiency, improved sleep quality and decreased pain intensity, in particular for these it was looking at a headache, but yeah, seeing these recovery for people who are kind of just left out and you know, to heal and see what happens. Another study showed that just using photobiomodulation for three days, the day of the injury, and then the following days, there are reduced markers of apoptosis, and there is some functional recovery exhibited in terms of behaviors. So here's a case study that came up looking at TBI. This is gray Maynard. He was a UFC fighter and naturally had a history of head injuries due to his career. So some of the things that he was presenting at the time were main issues were with attention and focus, but he also had some issues with sleep and some obsessive thinking, impulsivity, compulsive behaviors. So he started using transcranial photobiomodulation, and these two maps are taken three months apart in this just to point out, looking at solely these maps, you can see that there is an improvement in the overall power in both the Delta and the theta bands, which is pretty Significant from those just to be three months apart. The other thing is, though, he started reporting that he was able to sit down and read for 10 minutes and remember what he read, which is one of his metrics he set out beforehand. Additionally, he was opening a new business and he was able to sit down and work at the computer, which is something he hadn't been able to do previously. Another area of focus and research has been with autism. So this has looked at both children and adults alike, in particular for this first study, this was with children, but they showed that after eight sessions of photobiomodulation, the children were exhibiting reduced irritability and other behavioral symptoms. In another study, they were showing that there is a reduction the cars scores, reduction in behavioral and cognitive rigidity and improved attentional faculties and sleep quality. And what's interesting is also, in that same study, they pointed out that there was reduced caregiver stress, and the caregivers were reporting increased compliance and behavior. And if anybody has worked with this population, you know that that makes a very big difference, if you can get some compliance and if the caregiver is not miserably stressed. So this is a case study of a child with autism. Call him CCK. He was five. I believe at the time of this one, he had limited verbal ability and seemed to show little understanding in daily conversations, low verbal and cognitive performance in various situations, he mixes up surnames of his teachers delays before speaking. So this provider decided to start including transcranial photobiomodulation, based on the idea that autism is associated with mitochondrial dysfunctions. Transcranial photobiomodulation supports mitochondrial functioning. It seems like an obvious choice, and he was also using Neurofeedback same time. So what he saw from doing this is that originally, CCK hadn't been making a lot of improvements while using just Neurofeedback alone, but once he started integrating with the transcranial photobiomodulation, they saw improved social interaction and language abilities. He was able to name his teachers already just from doing the neurofeedback. But once he incorporated the transcranial photobiomodulation, he was now greeting his teachers and greeting them in an appropriate time. He was talking about his emotions, and he was able to properly express what he wanted, for instance, to say that he was thirsty. And this is, I think, one of the most remarkable parts. So they did a pre and post request of him to draw a dinosaur. So there was some verbal guidance that was provided by the teacher for each of these. And again, these are about two or three months apart. On the left hand side, you can see this was before they incorporated the transcranial photo biomodulation, and on the right side was after they had started incorporating it. It's pretty significant shifts from, you know, being very unclear of what it is to a much more clear representation of what was being asked. Well, there's obviously other areas that we would definitely look at applying transcranial photobiomodulation. Alzheimer's is certainly one of those with Alzheimer's where you do see there's that neuro inflammation that comes around with the beta amyloid proteins and tau tangles. Obviously there's memory impairment, and you're seeing disrupted functional connectivity that's going along with that, and ultimately neuronal death, as we see this uptick of pro infant inflammatory elements. So how does photobiomodulation help? Well, it's activating that cytochrome c oxidase, which increases that ATP production. So we're improving more blood flow, we're reducing that oxidative stress. This reduces free radical production and inhibits amyloid protein precursor activation, so helping to really support the cells, making sure they're operating as they're supposed to, but also increasing that that blood flow, so that we can be clearing out any of this toxins as well. And so some of the case studies that have been conducted, there was one case study with 18 subjects with mild cognitive impairment. So they were diagnosed with this. They underwent a single session of transcranial photobiomodulation. They were testing the visual memory span test, and those who had the single session performed better after treatment and showed reduced hemodynamic response. Essentially, they were being more cognitively efficient in the way that they were approaching this task. In another study that was conducted, there's 57 individuals with mild to moderate dementia. They were using a transcranial photobiomodulation device across eight weeks, and the active group showed improved cognitive functioning. They showed improved sleep, but also their caregivers again, were noting improved mood, decreased anxiety, and a positive impact on daily routine. And just to point out that this was actually an at home device, so even working with the population with dementia, they're still able to operate with at home devices, because the light therapy is intended to be something that should be easy to use, just like walking outside and getting in the sunshine can be depending on where you live,

Speaker 5  50:28
but, but if you don't have a diagnosis like one of these, there's no injury, there's no Alzheimer's, there's no autism, just sleep in general. So things that we see with sleep issues is when sleep deprivation increases amyloid beta levels in the Serena cerebrospinal fluid, we see that sleep efficiency and slow wave activity during non REM sleep are decreased in individuals diagnosed with Alzheimer's short or long sleep duration, and changes in sleep patterns have been linked to poor cognitive performance and risk of dementia. Increased concentrations of interleukin one, pro inflammatory cytokine was seen in saliva of students with poor quality sleep and poor quality sleep was associated with lower brain volume. So just having poor quality sleep alone has so many awful health impacts on us, and it's something that's so easily overlooked. People are quick to just go ahead and give up sleep so they can be able to finish this project or do whatever their thing is, and ultimately, we're just causing health issues from this. So how can photobiomodulation help with sleep? One is it can inhibit amyloid protein precursor activation. It improves cognitive performance for people for that next day, can down regulate the interleukin one beta and up regulate anti inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin 10, and it may help increase gray matter in the brain, although studies are still inconclusive, so some of the studies that have been conducted, there are 58 subjects with subjective cognitive decline. So these individuals were not diagnosed. They just noted this in themselves, and they were using transcranial photobiomodulation for six days in a row, just once a day for six days for the first couple of days, everything was exactly the same in both the treatment and in the control group. But by the fifth day of the treatment, sleep efficiency and REM sleep had improved and was significant and sustained. Another study that was conducted were 15 subjects with General Anxiety Disorder, so not in particular that they were looking specifically for sleep, but this was a reported issue from the individuals who are participating in this study. So this was across eight weeks, and they again show that there are significant improvements in the sleep quality as measured by the testing. So what are other ways that we can look at possible changes that occur. Well, I know I showed this in my pre and post results earlier for gray Maynard's case study, but one thing that people are really interested in right now in this field has been looking at the changes that can happen to the EEG. So you'll look across studies. And one of the kind of common things that comes up is that people sort of show time and again, that the power of alpha bins and beta bins are increased after using transcranial photobiomodulation. It doesn't matter what the nanometers is for the light, or what their time was, or any other aspects of it, no matter what we're seeing increases in these two particular bends. And what I think is really interesting about this is that we see those increases even if somebody just puts light on the palm of their hand. So it's obviously something that's coming about that's a much larger physiological process than we truly understand. But time and again, you'll see that this is something that's reported from these studies looking at changes to the EEG. On top of this, they showed that they do see the greatest changes being where the light is. So for many of these transcranial photobiomodulation studies, they were using handheld devices, and they focused it on either the left or the right forehead. This is mostly because it's an easy area to access. There's not a lot of hair to get in the way. So you're pretty standardized across your individuals. So what they showed is when they did EEG scans on these individuals who were participating in this, they did see that the greatest impacts on the alpha and beta frequency bends were under where the light was shining. However, throughout the entire head, even if they were shining it directly on the forehead, you're still seeing changes at the very back of the head. So from this, we could see that there's both a direct impact that how using photobiomodulation has, but there's also a downstream effect that occurs too, and there is also noted impacts on functional connectivity. So we've seen throughout many studies that, again, whether they put the light maybe just right on the front of the head, or multiple sites on the head, whatever that we see, we see an impact on functional connectivity. Sometimes this is activating a single network, but the majority of the time, it's activating multiple so part of this is with that direct and indirect effects that light has on the brain, even if we're shining the light just on the left forehead, you're still activating more of these networks underneath, so that you're getting really the whole brain to be involved in this process. So one of the examples for this functional connectivity was looking at task of individuals working with working memory. Task for this, they were looking at healthy individuals in particular, and they were testing them using transcranial photo biomodulation. What they showed after using the photobiomodulation was that there was increased functional connectivity in the prefrontal cortex, so in that executive functioning network, in particular, to be able to really focus on the task that they were looking at. And again, that decreased oxygenation, exhibiting more of that cognitive efficiency. So we saw that on that other example with a mild cognitive impairment and the visual span testing, there was that decreased oxygenation as well exhibited there the same for these. For this working memory task, one of the things that we haven't seen observationally, and that there's definitely not as much research about, but I'm very hopeful that there will be, maybe within the next year or so, is that there's an increase in the peak alpha power. This is really important to note, because essentially, everybody has a peak alpha power, and as long as you're a healthy individual and an adult, it tends to be between nine and 11 Hertz. This kind of just sets the tone for how you go about your day, and between nine and 11 hertz seems to be a comfortable rhythm for us to process what we're taking in throughout our days and manage it well. Once you start dipping below that nine hertz and we're looking more into eight hertz or even seven hertz as that background frequency, then you're thinking more about cognitive impairment in the eight Hertz range. It might not be very significant or necessarily noticed by other people, but especially dipping down into that seven Hertz range, it's a pretty significant level of impairment generally. For many years, this was thought that really once it kind of declines, you're just sort of out of luck at that point. So people are kind of just at management states. But what we've been seeing from people who are using the transcranial photobiomodulation is that this peak alpha power is actually increasing in its speed. So for individuals who have already been diagnosed potentially with like mild cognitive impairment, they're showing a little bit slower speed, let's say 8.3 Hertz. We're seeing this starting to increase, creeping back closer to that nine or that healthy range. So something that's a really interesting phenomenon that's not really necessarily expected, but definitely interesting to consider. And with that, there's additional things to think about, considering looking at photobiomodulation. So one, and this is one that I just have to harp on constantly, is hydration. Most people are dehydrated anyway, especially if you're looking at some of these memory issues or other functional issues, people just might not be, you know, capable of really taking care of this on their own. And even if people are, they're still bad at it. So infrared light does interact with the water in the body, although the exact way that it does is unclear, but we do know that there's an interaction. So having people drink water before they're using any kind of photo bio modulation can really help to improve those benefits, but also mitigate any unwanted side effects. So essentially, if the body's already compromised by dehydration, there's a higher chance that the light can end up further dehydrating somebody, and they might have responses such as a headache or fatigue. Kind of the general things that you expect when you're looking at dehydration, and obviously, drinking water can just help to mitigate these issues. It's a good thing for people to do anyway. So just trying to push them to do it at any point, if you're using photobiomodulation, is a good thing to do.

Speaker 5  1:00:29
And dosing, I brought this up earlier on this slide that I was talking about, that formula to be able to calculate it. The reason that I can't say here is the exact dose that's perfect for this condition is for this slide itself, you can see that even though there's the same areas that are being targeted, there's totally different dosages that were implemented. So there's really no clear consensus on it. And this is where looking at kind of the specs of the device, and thinking about how strong it really is without a radiance can be a good guide for some of this dosing, as well as LEDs versus lasers. As I mentioned, those lasers are going to tend to be much shorter periods of time that you're using it. So dosing is kind of a pain to figure out, but in general, you kind of get to a place where you can sort of feel out your particular device and how it works. For most people. The other thing thinking about is that wavelength, and that wavelength is important for what you're trying to achieve. So if the issue that you work with or focus on is more superficial, then visual wavelengths are probably better suited. So again, this is where you have those like face mask and things for beauty care. Those are all going to be in the visible light range, typically, or maybe some of them get into the infrared, but in general, they're in that visible light, if the tissue or the issue is deeper in the body, then longer wavelengths. So getting more into that near infrared light range might be better suited than visible the other thing to think about is the design of the device. So again, I mentioned this earlier, but it's worth repeating that you really do need to consider about the angle of the light. So just because you're sitting in front of it or near it and you can see the light, it doesn't mean that the lights actually shining where you're trying to target. So just thinking about what you're trying to target in this you want to get something that's really fitting for that. Cause I Yeah. And just to consider, you know, panels might be best if you're looking for large surface areas, kind of general health and well being, you know, good crowd pleasers. Another thing to consider is that pulsation, so there is still significantly unknown information about this, and people are constantly working on it, so there is quite a bit of research to support the 40 hertz can help with working memory and both healthy and memory impaired individuals. It does seem to be helpful for kind of brain brightening in general. So it can be helpful for cognitive energy and support. And this can be helpful for both older and younger individuals too. There doesn't seem to be some particular age limit on it. And I just put this image down here on the bottom, just to be clear, when we're talking about this 40 hertz pulse rate. This is what I mean, is that it's pulsing 40 times in a second, just to clarify with that. And this is something that was mentioned earlier about that 40 hertz has the mechanism to direct the microglia specifically to areas with amyloid beta to remove these without creating a toxic storm in the brain. Some research has shown that 10 heart seems to have a stronger biological impact than constant light does, and that it can penetrate more deeply than constant light. So where you know this comes in of trying to look now between 40 hertz versus 10 hertz, we do see that 40 hertz is helpful for memory, but 10 hertz is also having a strong impact. So it gets a little bit more complicated about what exactly is right for, what exact condition. Most of the research is on constant light, just from the way that the research has been conducted. So it is kind of easy to fall back on that if people are ever, you know, looking for what protocol might be best for them, and can pretty much find constant light for most of them, and that shows that there's great benefits. There's just a potential that pulsed light could have a stronger effect, but we just haven't had enough research conducted yet. I've heard before that somebody was using 1024 pulsed hertz for meditation. I've never seen anything to back that up, but I thought it was interesting. And we do have providers reporting that they've been using 14 hertz pulse rate for long COVID And sort of dysregulated nervous systems, those people who are very 100 miles an hour or zero, that 14 hertz seems to be helpful for balancing. Again, there's not any research that's been conducted around this in particular that I know of, but there are quite a few providers who've been using this, and who knows what else will come up. There's, you know, at least initial research on some other pulse rates. But again, the population size is too small, and there's not been replicated studies as of yet, so we really don't know what else could come out, but there's probably a lot more frequencies than just 40 and 10 in constant light. So looking forward to seeing what will come out. So for contraindications, they are rare, but they're important to know cancer is going to be one of them, especially if there's active cancer, if somebody has a history of cancer, then you probably want to still take precaution, depending on how long ago that was. But especially if there's active cancer, you really want to take caution, because there is a chance that photobiomodulation can promote angiogenesis, but then this potentially could feed the tumor, so avoiding it for cancer metal implanted in the head. So for individuals with shrapnel, or if they have deep brain stimulation, these individuals are not going to be good candidates, in particular for transcranial photobiomodulation. I realized I should have put this in here, but obviously this would also be the same for the body. As far as I know, titanium is the only metal that is the exception. So like we've worked with people who have titanium skulls, and that is an acceptable metal to have in the head, but otherwise there's a chance for heating, so we wouldn't recommend it. And hyper thyroid conditions. There's really not enough testing for this. It's really just kind of based on theory, but you'll see this on many different photobiomodulation companies websites that they recommend this, just to take extra precaution, and then implanted stimulation devices. So obviously I mentioned the deep brain stimulation, and that's you know, if you're using transcranial photobiomodulation, but just the implanted stimulation devices in general. It might not be a great idea, at least, to be using pulsed light. It might not have any interference, but since these implanted stimulation devices are already trying to create a particular rhythm and not disrupting that is for the safest epilepsy? That's definitely a question that get frequently. When looking at transcranial photobiomodulation, people are really concerned about it. There's lights and flashing. There's no evidence that constant or pulsed light that's being used on the head that is in no way geared towards the eyes, should trigger any seizure activity, and in fact, they've been showing some emerging research has shown therapeutic benefit of using photobiomodulation with seizures, first, in reducing the frequency overall of seizures, and second for providing a protective factor for neuronal cells, so individuals are having fewer seizures, and when they are having them, there's less damage that's occurring. So epilepsy is definitely not a contraindication at all, but it's a very common thing to get if you start working with light. So some of the future directions that I'm really excited about and looking forward to, and one is combining it with other technologies. While I think photobiomodulation can do incredible wonders for a wide variety of things, it does work best if it's going to be working with other things at the same time. So two that I think would be interesting are TMS and ultrasound. Think it's being combined right now with radio frequency, if I'm not mistaken, to look at the impact on cancer cells. So I think that would be a really interesting one as well. I also think it'd be really cool to see with IV,

Speaker 5  1:10:06
there's intracatheter light that's been experimented with, as far as I know. This was mostly in Russia, I believe, but it's basically a more direct way to be able to reach the blood vessels. So I'll be really curious what happens with this. It seems like it could be helpful, potentially, for delivering different medications in a more efficient way. But I'm sure there's other things with that as well, and then as a pain relief alternative, certainly, you know, in the United States in particular, then we have a huge opioid epidemic, you know. Then the issue is of, you know, being in the pain cycle that kind of keeps you locked into these drugs. So having something that potentially could be disrupting that pain cycle, first you can have it, you know, on the actual site of injury, if there is issues with inflammation, so that you can get some mobility back, but also just having the actual neurological aspect of pain disrupted can be really life changing for these individuals, but also for people who just experience chronic pain. It's a pretty common thing nowadays as well, especially having more sedentary lifestyles. A lot of people experience chronic pain, and again, you can kind of easily tip over into, you know, becoming an opioid user if you don't get some type of relief at some point in time. So I think it'll be really great the more research that goes into that, and there's definitely some research that's coming out now, but I think there will be a lot more moving forward. So that was everything that I had planned, and I really appreciate this time, and I would be happy to answer any questions I also have more slides. I look like other people maybe had longer talks, but I wanted to give some opportunity for any thoughts that you will have. Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:12:23
alright, Jordan, I think we have some questions that was actually great. This is from the chat. Let me just pull up some questions for you.

Speaker 4  1:12:36
Okay, study, the study of eight to 10 weeks, what was the dose, time and and how frequent was the light applied? I don't know if you remember that part. That's a little I think that was back in, this was in the early part. I mean, does that ring a bell or yeah, let me Yeah. Me,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:01
yeah,

Speaker 6  1:13:02
she almost, she almost. Is done. I just want to and to take my phone.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:09
Okay, there we go. We got her,

Speaker 5  1:13:11
um, they were using a 40 hertz pulse rate. Think they're 20 minutes, because I think that this is just a standard device, but I do not know the specs for this particular device, okay,

Speaker 4  1:13:38
just to share you my ignorance here, so before I started understanding photo bio, photo bio modulation therapy. So when I see red lights, I thought that was like, Hey, this is what I need to see. But as I went through my study on this, it actually is. So the deeper nanometers, as you said the as far as you go in the 1000s, you're not going to be seeing red lights anymore. So for the people out there who is ignorant, like I was always looking I need red lights. This is not working because I don't see red lights. But the red light now, as I found out, is a bit more superficial than what I thought. That only works on the surface, and as you get into the six hundreds, eight hundreds, now this is where the definition, familiar definition to always hear about near infra led, mid infrared and even far infrared. So is that correct? Correct me, if I'm understanding this wrong,

Speaker 5  1:14:37
yeah, yeah, exactly. So really, once you got into kind of the like mid seven hundreds. Around 750 ish is when it starts becoming invisible, or mostly invisible to the human eye,

Speaker 4  1:14:50
right? So for people out there, don't look for the red light and thinking that if that's the one that's effective, the one that really does not have a color, that's the one that you really want to get into those infrared, near or mid infrared states. And also, as you mentioned that this is not all about the highest nanometers you get, the more benefit, benefit that you would get. This is really staying in the middle. Majority of the studies that I've seen, especially for transcranial and Alzheimer's, most of these are in the eight hundreds and 1000s nanometers. So if you go farther than that, meaning around 3000 would be far infrared, it's a more systemic therapy. It means it's not even related to stimulation of cytochrome c. When you go into the 3000s for far infrared, it's really more of now really warming up the body through water molecules, and it's not what talking about ATP mitochondria stimulation anymore. I don't know if that makes sense to anybody there, but this is really fascinating when I was understanding this, just because now even the machines that I get or use, I actually had to study this from from the from the get go. So, but anyway, okay, let's go back to your quick. Enough about me. Let's talk about your questions here. So just backtracking here real quick. Okay, what about photo bio modulation with Hashimotos? Do you have any experience about that and your readings?

Speaker 5  1:16:24
No, but, I mean, I would think that there would be benefit for it. I mean, ideally, right? This is being supportive for the whole system. I think that there was a good possibility for it, but there's not any studies, at least that I know of as of yet,

Unknown Speaker  1:16:40
right? Dr Bill, you want to jump in

Bill Clearfield  1:16:43
Sure. What about photobiomodulation devices for blood eradiation versus topical? Are they similar or better results are expected as systemic, and what is your knowledge about this?

Unknown Speaker  1:17:01
Is is this more about like, the like, ozone?

Speaker 4  1:17:08
I think it's the IV. There's a brand, I can't mention it, but it's, I think, if correct me, if I'm wrong, the one who

Bill Clearfield  1:17:14
asked there's an IV, IV, yeah, you really blood, and then you ozonate it also,

Speaker 4  1:17:21
yeah, yeah. So it's, it's in Europe. There's a lot of this in Europe, so I think that's what they're trying to ask

Speaker 5  1:17:28
you, yeah, I think that it would be, I mean, super helpful. I think that it kind of feels silly that we're not doing stuff like this again, it's just using light like, how hard would that be to just add into, you know, whatever else you're doing, like these ozone therapies,

Speaker 4  1:17:44
right? I think just to vouch for that question, there are studies for this, especially for the brand, if she's pertaining to this specific brand that starts with a W, it's, it has actually been seen to be effective with myofascial pain, musculoskeletal disorders, and even I've seen Ms, I think they tried on this, but these are pilot studies, RCTs. It's not that prominent yet to to give this a little bit more of a kick in terms of proof, but it is effective, so in a sense that in terms of clinical experience,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:25
okay, I have

Bill Clearfield  1:18:26
on the last question, Hashimotos, thyroiditis, I found there's emerging evidence. There was a 2013 study in lasers and surgery and medicine. 43 patients, 830 nanometer laser, 10 sessions over five weeks, 47% of the patients had reduced or discontinued levothyroxine during a nine month follow up, improved thyroid echogenicity and decreased TP, PPO antibodies levels. Then there's another one for immune modulation and it reduced reduction of oxidative stress and thyroid autoimmunity in 2021 in the photo, bio modulation and then EBM was found to aid reducing and reducing TPO levels and improved thyroid volume and function. So there's, there's some, some evidence here. Common wavelength was 830 nanometers, two to three times a week for five weeks.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:28
Okay? 100 nanometers, 830 nanometers, okay, so that's basically near infrared. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:19:38
okay, in ASD, I'm still looking at autism spectrum, I'm assuming, with self harm, with very limited verbalization, with TPM help with self harm.

Speaker 5  1:19:51
Yeah. So that's kind of what these studies were showing, is these reduced, you know, behavioral outbursts. So whether it was, you know, the self harm, or, you know, just having these behaviors that were maybe externally harmful, yeah, they showed a significant reduction in it. There seems to be a huge help and support for that emotion regulation and just general processing. So think it helps to reduce these behaviors.

Speaker 7  1:20:17
Do you have contacts in the Santa Monica area. Where do you practice?

Speaker 5  1:20:25
I don't practice. I'm a remote worker doing consultations, but

Speaker 7  1:20:32
if I could get in touch with you, I'm a patient that I'd like to see. If we could get therapy for. Yeah, yeah, absolutely

Bill Clearfield  1:20:44
not, not in the in the chat, but the question, So, what's the difference between what you're doing and transcranial magnetic stimulation? I know, I realize it's a different technique, but have you done any, any, any information, any, have any information on that?

Speaker 5  1:21:02
Yeah, so, you know, one certainly people can have a lot stronger reactions to TMS than they do to photobiomodulation in general, just because it is a lot stronger of a sensation, it's a lot more disruptive. They also seem to have some properties that work together quite well, which is why I think it's interesting to think and hopefully there will be at least a couple studies that are done this year combining the two of them. But yeah, it's interesting because they really do seem to work together well with both like increasing cortical excitability and decreasing cortical excitability, and the only two studies I found that combine the two. So, yeah, there's, there's definitely some overlaps in it, but they're pretty different, just in terms of, you know, TMS is just a lot more intensive of a intervention.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:01
Okay, okay, is PBM appropriate for small vessel brain disease?

Speaker 5  1:22:09
Yes. So it definitely seems, I mean, obviously, any of the literatures, you know, supportive of it, although there's not really great research that's necessarily around it, you know, having this increase in that, you know, vasodilation, we can have greater blood flow. There's definitely some some good benefits. It is interesting, though, I will say. And just like my personal experience, I've noticed that sometimes the people with small vessel issues can be more sensitive. So it's kind of an interesting which is fine. I mean, you know, you can work around it like it doesn't matter, but it's just it was just unexpected, I guess, to have this particular population be more sensitive.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:56
Stefan says he had a young patient with detected by not which is some sort of scan. I don't think you spelled that right, prenuvo Scan. I don't know what that is. I think it's from COVID or COVID vaccine on these

Speaker 4  1:23:12
contemplating MRI, the prenuvo I

Bill Clearfield  1:23:16
see, I'm old. I don't know what do I know? Hyperbaric Oxygen, arteriosil and vasconi x vasconce. That was a sort of an aside. Can we use Photo bio modulation for just want to say something? No,

Speaker 3  1:23:30
yeah, that's correct. Renewable is a full body MRI, and it detected small vessel ischemic disease in the brain and a very young woman. But yeah, that's good question. Can photo by modulation, like do anything for this.

Speaker 5  1:23:44
I mean, I don't again, I don't think it would be any harm for it. Ideally, it should be promoting greater blood flow, ultimately, especially if it's a younger person, you know, I think you have a lot more opportunity for healing. And so I think it's, you know, a good thing to be using. There's not anything that seems like a contraindication.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:05
Okay, can we use photobiomodulation for dry eye syndrome, autoimmune, autoimmune condition? So this is

Speaker 5  1:24:17
definitely not my area of expertise overall, in this at all. I mean, from what I've seen, it doesn't seem to matter about what the cause of the dry eyes was. I think I've seen it both from being caused from autoimmune issues or from other things. So I don't think that that's necessarily a factor. But in terms of the rest of the question and about eye drops, or any of that stuff that's definitely outside of my scope of knowledge.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:46
Okay. The question is, is anybody in the Miami area doing this,

Speaker 5  1:24:53
doing transcranial population? Yeah, yes, although, off the top of my head, I don't know,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:03
but again, Stefan has TB, 500 eye drops for dry eye syndrome.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:16
Okay, it's got a got a source for that. So, okay, how is peak alpha power measured via EEG.

Speaker 5  1:25:24
So peak alpha is measured with your eyes closed, in general, and typically it's taken from a particular posterior site. Some providers choose one and kind of always go with it. When I was doing neurofeedback, sort of stuck with, like pz, which is sort of in the back, in the middle of your head. But you could take it technically, from pz, 01, or 02, which are sort of a little bit lower, more in the occipital range. Yeah. And you're just looking for kind of the strongest frequency in that, technically, eight to 12 been arranged to find that peak Alpha.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:07
Do you have any books that you recommend, or any, any, like training manuals or anything, any such thing

Speaker 5  1:26:15
for the transcranial photo bio modulation? Yeah. So there's definitely a master class that's offered through our company, but

Bill Clearfield  1:26:27
yeah, don't mention that yet. Anything.

Speaker 5  1:26:31
If you look up Michael Hamblin, which is not related to me, and I feel like I have to disappoint people with that all the time, my last name doesn't have the B in it, but Hamblin. He's kind of like the father of, like, light therapy. He's got a lot of different like talks and videos and stuff that provides really great, comprehensive education. Plus he has an adorable accent, and that's always fun.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:59
What about for glaucoma

Speaker 5  1:27:02
that I don't know. Again, I've been doing research that I think seems really promising, but I haven't seen anything yet that's definitive.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:12
I published article with Dr Michael Hamblin.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:15
Oh, good.

Speaker 8  1:27:19
So he's a great guy, and yes, he is one of the top elite for he's a PhD. He worked in Harvard, and then he moved table, I think back to UK or Ireland,

Speaker 5  1:27:36
yeah, somewhere over there. Yeah, he's done incredible, incredible work.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:41
Right?

Bill Clearfield  1:27:43
Question about cleaning the devices when they're placed on the skin and their wipes that prevent contamination?

Speaker 5  1:27:50
Yeah, that's a really, really great point. So for sure, I mean, it would definitely depend on kind of what level, obviously, when I was doing it when I was working with neurofeedback, you know, I I'm just working with people who don't have, like, open wounds or anything, if you were working with, you know, open wounds, and we're talking more about, like, blue light and things like that, obviously you need, you know, something really heavy duty. But for things that are just like, you know, transcranial photobiomodulation, a lot of them are, you know, either little like nodules or a helmet, or it's just a couple lights, or whatever it is for those. What I was doing was just using alcohol wipes, and then I also had a UV light. So I cleaned my light with another light.

Bill Clearfield  1:28:40
What about use for pain, for post herpetic neuralgia, shingles?

Speaker 5  1:28:47
I would think so. I would think it would help with any of that. And, Good gosh, that pain is awful, that I feel like it's worthwhile.

Speaker 8  1:28:54
Well, you need to add metal and blue for infection. You can get better results. So patients either takes a metal and blue orally. Demand on the shingles is it's just so metal and blue. It's called for the dynamic therapy. So it's another mechanism of function of activating photosensitizers, yeah, but metal and blue is very safe, especially for Junji bites and halitosis and teeth caries and all that stuff, whitening the skin, the teeth, sorry, metal and blue for the dynamic therapy with metal with red light is it's an answer.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:40
Okay, good. I'm specifically skipping the questions about where to get them and what, what brands and whatnot. We'll we'll get to that when the CME portion is over. Okay, so anybody who's asked those questions, we will get to them. What about neuropathy?

Speaker 5  1:29:58
I also think for neuropathy, there will be some really great promise. Again, it's another area that I don't really understand why it hasn't been as explored. But, yeah, I had, like, one of my friends, even built her own little light device to use for her feet. So I think it's a great, a great addition for, you know, an adjunct to other modalities.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:23
Great. Okay. Dr, Nao, do you have any email?

Speaker 4  1:30:26
Yes, we have some questions. Jordan, by the way, please share your email if you want to our audience here. So there, your email is in demand, as you can see. So yeah, one of the things that you did mention about the benefits of photo, I guess a photo bio modulation would be the advancements in mild cognitive impairment. So this is a big problem that's happening a lot, and you did emphasize about the increasing BDNF that actually gets produced with that. But the curiosity here is, as you can see, the advancement is ongoing. Are you seeing PBM basically getting into the AI world, or is it going to be synced with wearable tracking now? I mean, I see the GPG had a slide there that in the future, there's something that you're kind of discussing about. Are these things? Have you encountered this advancement before?

Speaker 5  1:31:30
For sure, absolutely. So there's definitely already companies out there that are trying to implement an AI type model. I think a challenge with that, of course, is just, you know, research is still so preliminary. I mean, especially in human models, we have a lot in rat models or mouse models, but we're missing a lot in the human models. So thinking AI, you know, true direction for it is going to be a long way off in my mind, but in terms of tracking it with other wearables, I think that you know for sure, there will be, you know, great things looking at like even with the or ring, and tracking your sleep. I think looking at heart rate variability, there's, you know, some studies that have been conducted with that and showing the you know, kind of interplay that each of them have on each other. I think that'll be something really great. I think we'll get a lot more of these kind of multimodal systems, so ones that are incorporating, you know, the pulsation of light, but also binaural beats that have, like, some type of overlapping, you know, frequencies in their wave forms. So I think that's, you know, another road that will be explored in the near future, right right

Speaker 8  1:32:49
here before. I think the best option to monitor the efficacy of photo bio modulation is indo, tear function test, pseudo motor and autonomic nervous system, because that's the over effect of the light therapy has to increase the nitrous side and buffalo redox. That this will lead to balancing the autonomic nervous system that can be measured. There's a system for that, and also the deal function. So something you may consider tomorrow to the efficacy of your treatment, right? So so as you

Speaker 4  1:33:23
mentioned about the portability, I think that's part of that projected future of this. And now I don't know if you, I'm sure you've encountered this before, that there are reliable home, I guess home or for public consumption or public use, products. Are there anything that I mean later on? You could probably mention names, but are those reliable products that are out there? I'm sure there are medical uses their their public uses for it, and yeah, what are your comments on the ones that you can get just online?

Speaker 5  1:33:57
For sure, there's definitely, like, really, really credible home use devices, absolutely. But this is definitely where you want to be super discerning. So in general, if you're on those websites that are, you know, you mean, even Amazon, right, like that, just kind of have a lot of generic things. A lot of those products aren't providing the wavelength that they say that they are, and they're not providing the power output. So again, you're just kind of getting a, you know, a flimsy pad that just have lights up if you plug it in, you know. So really looking into kind of what standards that these companies are doing for their testing, like I mentioned a lot of times, you'll look and you can't even find the specs for different devices. So really trying to see, does this company actually tell you what these specs are? They telling you how they got them? Like just those sorts of things, you can find really, really high quality products.

Speaker 4  1:34:53
So you mean, the one that I bought from Amazon doesn't work? No, I'm kidding. I'm gonna send it back then.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:00
I got mine from Teemu. Perfect was $1.98

Speaker 4  1:35:07
that's unreliable. Hey, we're seeing me right. We can't Yeah, all right, another one. And any studies that compared PBM to like pharmaceuticals for anxiety or depression or combined PBM with these pharmaceuticals in terms of treating these conditions.

Speaker 5  1:35:27
Yeah, so there's definitely ones that are looking at combining them, and we're seeing improved results, you know, with the combination of the two for quite a few things, including, you know, depression and anxiety. For sure. I think there's some early studies that are looking at, like ADHD and comparing to stimulant use versus the photobiomodulation, yeah. And then there's definitely studies that are sort of looking at, how can the photobiomodulation be supportive for delivering these drugs, you know, things that we're trying to get across the blood brain barrier. So, yeah, there's a lot of different kind of studies and avenues with it. I think essentially, what it comes down to is we don't really see photobiomodulation interfering with other types of medications. The biggest thing that I've seen or come across are just ones that can cause increased light sensitivity. Somebody might feel like the infrared light feels hotter than most other people would, but that's really about it. From what I've seen for any interactions, right?

Speaker 4  1:36:36
I have seen some studies in relation to PBM complementing or enhancing SSRIs, I think it's more specific for treatment resistant depression. And as we know, as you mentioned a while ago, PBM reduces the neuro inflammation, which can also definitely affect mood disorders in a in a good way. You got all my questions out, Jordan, thank you so much. I think everybody's wanting to hear more about your your stuff. Okay, so, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:03
okay, well, thank you so much, and we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, 5pm Pacific, 8pm Eastern, and we'll talk to you then. Okay, thank you so much, Jordan, thank you. Okay, we're off to see a meet. You didn't leave? Did you okay? Yeah, so, so there's lots of questions about, you know, where can we, where can we get it, what brands are, are used, you know, specifically, your your what you do. So now you're free to free to speak. Okay, wonderful.

Speaker 5  1:37:45
So I work for the company neuronic. We have a infrared light helmet so it does cover the whole head. It looks like a very cool bike helmet. It doesn't look as cool. I'm just, I shouldn't even get your hopes up with that, but it is cool in terms of the coverage. So it is, you know, across the whole brain, which a lot of these other devices are a little bit more fixated. We also work in the 1070 nanometer range. So you'll hear, like, a lot of those studies that were cited are looking at that 830 nanometer range, which is something that definitely shows support for cognitive functioning. The 1070 nanometer is what we chose to go with, because it does seem to penetrate deeper than the eight, you know, ish nanometer range due to less scattering. So, yeah, so we sell our devices for both in clinic and at home use. We have two that are out right now. One is our original one, which is called the noradian 1070 it has some customization that you can kind of customize for quadrants and different pulse rates to target regions or to maybe try to offset some things. But for most people, the light is our newer device that we have out. It has less customization for it, but it's got all the same great benefits of that whole head coverage. So it's good for the majority of people,

Speaker 4  1:39:22
and that is what Dr Choza, I think, was using in terms of the nanometers. So, yeah, that was the one that also showed improvement in cognitive impairment. And I think you're trying to do it in dementia and Alzheimer's. So, but my question here is, what's the difference between you said there's something for the public and there's one for just providers. What is the difference between those devices?

Speaker 5  1:39:47
Yeah, so most people don't need the like, further customization of the device, you know, like I mentioned, there's the pulse rates, which, you know, we don't have a ton of information on now, so we did make that customizable for both of our devices. So just in case, 242 ends up being a cure for everything, then you would be able to program that into the device, the one that is more for that clinical use does just have that kind of next step. So being able to either, you know, target a specific area and program even further into that of each individual quadrant. So again, most people just don't need that. Like in general, it's usually for kind of more complicated medical issues, or people who've had really complicated like head injury cases, those people might need a little bit more of that customization level. But yeah, for most people, that other one, and even for most clinicians, usually the lights perfectly fine.

Speaker 8  1:40:53
Do you frequency your lights or no or just constant, continue or frequent? Yeah, like, it's like, like a flashlight, or it's, it's continue light, it

Speaker 5  1:41:06
can be both. So we have four presets that are on there already. One is constant light. One is 10 hertz, 114's hertz, and 140's but then we do have the ability to program on our light helmet. In particular, it goes from one to 999 hertz on our 1070 device, it goes from

Speaker 8  1:41:28
and the frequency with effect or applications, is any difference you know, of this frequency is that? Is it valid? And changing those frequency can enhance the efficacy or change the efficacy or outcome of the results.

Speaker 5  1:41:46
Yeah. So that's kind of the like sort of question to be answered. Like I mentioned in there, there was that 40 hertz pulse rate. It does seem to have some very specific interactions that can especially be helpful for some cognitive decline issues. You know, from what I've seen from working with individuals, I typically see that usually something that's closer to 40, hertz is going to be more stimulating for people. Things that are closer to like 10, hertz tend to be a little bit calmer for people. But honestly, a lot of that's just really anecdotal from, you know, people subjective reports,

Speaker 8  1:42:25
because that's one of the publication me and Dr Hamblin, we did, and even Dr Weber, because also, you can say the pioneers in in light therapy, Weber, in Germany, Hamblin and us, well, UK, US, but there's no really much difference in the frequency. And we didn't notice any differences with all the studies. It just an extra luxury thing, but outcome is the same. Continue our post. That's what we find out it's it's basically buffer dirty dogs increasing nitric side. That's the general effect of it, and that's why it has many clinical applications as you sell. People would say, Oh, how come light can work for many different organs, many different disease, because the commonality of all of them is oxidative stress and and oxidative stress leads to some sort of inflammation, especially, and so generally, it will help the whole spectrum of inflammatory oxidative stress diseases in general,

Speaker 5  1:43:35
right, right? Exactly, you know, I think that's something that we run into quite often, is people are like, what's the right protocol for my particular condition? And I think you know what you said is just what it kind of comes down to, is the light itself is what's providing the benefit. The rest of it are just things that maybe are adding, you know, something else. But really it's about the light,

Speaker 8  1:43:58
the owner of the company, or you are working for the company. I'm working for the company, but you're not the decision maker. I am not the decision maker because I have companies with manufacturing lasers. They're physicists in China, and I am consulting them, and I'm looking for US companies if they need to customize things. because we have many applications for light, a lot lot of publication photobiomodulation photodynamic therapy photo ablations I wrote a book on it it's in Amazon as well. If you click My name, there's a big book on different varieties of. of products, then that's what we're looking for.

Speaker 5  1:44:43
Absolutely. Yeah, I put my email in the chat,

Speaker 8  1:44:46
so yeah, I have your email, okay, okay, providing the CME for you, by the way. But now it's off CME, so he can talk fairly, right? Dr, William, yep,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:56
you're good. You're good to go. Okay.

Speaker 4  1:45:00
Jordan, do you have, uh, samples to show our people? Yeah, they're gonna model some. Okay.

Speaker 5  1:45:09
Now this one is, this is our 1070 helmet, which, as I said, it's very cool. I put stickers on mine, though, including a sticker myself on the back. So, you know, it makes it a little bit cooler. But yeah, so this is, you know, the array of the lights inside of it. So, like you I said, you know, you have a huge, you know, coverage here to really kind of hit the entire brain for it. And this is the one that can be customized. You kind of have a front, uh, left, right and back portion that can be individually

Speaker 8  1:45:45
that's strong enough if I wear it as, uh, in the biking place. It the helmet bike. It seems like very strong and rigid.

Speaker 5  1:45:55
I think it'd be better than nothing, but beyond that, I don't know how safe it would be. I don't think I could give that official recommendation.

Speaker 4  1:46:06
Does it help with the hair too? I mean, I know it doesn't have the red right, but have you seen it improved here regardless.

Speaker 5  1:46:15
Yeah. So I think, you know, there's probably a lot of different ways to theorize this, but, you know, I think it's a downstream effect. We're improving cellular health overall. It's going to eventually come out to be at our skin too. I think there's a part of, you know, supporting, like the stress too. Just getting, you know, better energy throughout the day, you're having more cognitive energy to do tasks. People's stress load goes down, then they start getting healthier hair. So I think there's a lot of different reasons possibly why, but I do have people tell me that, yeah, they definitely say that their hair

Speaker 8  1:46:51
right, because it's like the effect of minoxidil. Minoxidil is nitric side donor, by the way. And light therapy is nitric side donor too, because it increase the release of nitric side from the red blood cells and from hemoglobin, especially if you combine with blue, right? So yes, it. Think about light front put in front of it nitric oxide and buffering dire dots equal to stimulation of stem cells. That's why you can use it for I call it photoregenerative therapies. So when you do your stem cell in the joints, you can add light to it. That helps. So it does help to stimulate stem cells and help the hair follicles as well

Speaker 6  1:47:34
the patients can sleep at night with this. They can use it at night to sleep.

Speaker 5  1:47:38
Have you got a particular one that would have to be comfortable enough for it? I mean, certainly, like mine, is definitely not, you know, because this is at the back of your head. I don't know of any right now that I would necessarily recommend, that would be good for sleeping, but they should come out with something soon, I would hope. Since this research has supported it, there's

Speaker 8  1:48:03
also an article to publications about sexual function. Of it, it does help erection and sexual dysfunction. Say they put, like, they put light in those basketball protectors there. Have you seen those? I think in Israel, they have a company who's doing that light in the genitalia. Nobody has have experience about it?

Bill Clearfield  1:48:33
No, we should send you. I think we should send you on a field trip. Dr halasa, I want you to report back to us.

Speaker 4  1:48:48
So Jordan, so it's only in one size. For example, my head doesn't fit. Should I just put like inserts to make it fit, like what I saw on your

Speaker 5  1:48:56
model? Yeah, so mine got a little wonky, but yeah, so these are just connected through a Oh, man, there we go. These are just connected through these little Velcro stickers so you can use different ones to be able to size it, we even have, like, a full strap that's can be really helpful, especially for wiggly kids, having something that's just stabilizing it under the chin, yeah. So it's really easy to kind of, you know, ultimately fit to a lot of different size heads. The worst case scenario is, you know, if it was still too big, even after adding all these inserts, it can just rest on the top of your head, and you can stick a travel pillow in the back. But I don't really run into that. People tend to be able to fit really easily in the using the inserts. So

Speaker 4  1:49:48
the kids version and adult version just the same. You just need to put those inserts in. Okay, gotcha

Bill Clearfield  1:49:55
Exactly. What about those of us with, you know, the had the BDNF expanded when we were young, and so it doesn't fit because it's too small.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:05
I have not run into that. Haven't

Bill Clearfield  1:50:07
run into that yet. Haven't met you. Just met dr Nario, so I

Speaker 4  1:50:14
don't know, I have to have customized minds, I guess.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:20
Well, okay, any any other, anybody else, have any comments or

Speaker 6  1:50:23
questions? Do you have protocols for how long we have to use it for each condition?

Speaker 5  1:50:31
No, so that's where there's just not really necessarily a perfect playbook for it. It's more about the light itself. So there is some, you know, research around 40 hertz to be helpful for neurodegeneration, improving memory, kind of brain brightening in general. But outside of that, it's really about just getting that exposure to the light and having some novelty involved with it. So our devices do come with preset protocols, which are really good starting points for most people,

Speaker 6  1:51:03
but using it for too long time, that can be a problem. Yes.

Speaker 5  1:51:09
So we do have a recommendation, as you know, an official one that's just kind of like 30 minutes as a maximum that's related to the heat aspect. But outside of the heat aspect, you have a personal kind of sweet spot that you can get to. So typically, people will start off with just a couple of minutes, and you slowly start building up over time, because you'll have an indication you've surpassed your sweet spot, because you won't feel as good. You know, you'll either have a mild headache or you'll feel really sleepy, and those will be good indicators, like, All right, great. That's too much. We need to back it up. Like, for myself, I've been using this device for over two years, and I still only do about 10 minutes as my maximum,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:53
and you feel hit after that. You don't

Speaker 5  1:51:58
that's not, I guess you you feel some warmth. It's not heat, though, like, uh, it's not hot.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:07
And this works on battery or it is plugged

Speaker 5  1:52:10
so this one that I showed, that one is a plug in the wall. Our new device, though, it does operate by a battery pack as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:22
Do you have prices? Jordan,

Speaker 5  1:52:23
yeah. So the device that I showed is about $3,400 and this is the one that's that clinical use. So again, it has more customizing abilities. Our new device that's out that I do recommend for most people the light it's 1795

Speaker 6  1:52:44
and how many weeks patients have to use it in order to see improvement.

Speaker 5  1:52:50
So it kind of depends on the condition for it. If you're talking about neurodegeneration, you know, people are kind of have to continuously be using it. You know, you're just fighting something that's actively fighting back. If you're looking at more acute though, like, for instance, like that long COVID study that was actually done with our device and then a Thor bed. They were only doing the study for one month, and during that time, the clients or the participants came in three times a week, just once a day, so they were seeing these significant changes in their cognitive performance in just one month time, a total of 12 um, sessions total. Awesome.

Speaker 7  1:53:42
Um, could I give two cents, my two cents tactic, but Bill Absolutely, okay. Um, I'd like to sleep with the EMF. And, you know, I use a little Earth pulse machine. But in the meantime, I like to take a photo by modulation device that include two frequencies. And I'll put it on different parts of my body, you know, if they're needed. And I also, at the same time, like to take a transdermal homeopathy solution. If I have like an ache in my back or my shoulders or my arms or my legs, I put some on it helps, which is basically you take a home pathic remedy and DMSO, for instance. So that makes it transdermal. Okay? So I also believe when I first learned about IV chelation, banana set of headphones and do some meditations. And you know, the Sanskrit I was taught is the science of vibration. And there's also a term called pranas bandana in Sanskrit, which means light of consciousness. So you can do all these things at one time, including putting on a heating pad that's kind of infrared with stones. You know, you can keep that on your back, and it'll run for maybe couple hours. And you wake up in the morning, you feel much better. So my point is, why not combine everything? And then there are some p, you know, some devices that have different frequencies and also different wave forms, which are from outside the country, and there's a lot of excitement going on, so I think it's a very exciting area that can help a lot of people, and a lot of people need to learn about it. So I think it's a great thing that Jordan's doing. Thank you. You're

Bill Clearfield  1:55:49
welcome. Yeah, yep. Thank you very much for being here with us. CME credits to AMA. CME credits are available. The link is in the in the chat there, and it'll be on the website, on our email for next week. And every once in a while, I get them on the on the website, also when I get around to it. So, okay, and next week, we have Mike Hartford. He is from Veterans Affairs, and he worked with the veterans with PTSD, so we're going to be hearing from him. And next week, same time, same station, any summary for us? Jordan,

Speaker 5  1:56:35
no, I think this is exciting, and I'm excited that you guys are all so receptive of this. I really do think, you know, the frequency of medicine is definitely in the future, and light is by far my favorite one. So I'm really looking forward to seeing all the things we'll do.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:50
I think this is someone we should consider when we finally do get our conference together. Dr

Unknown Speaker  1:56:58
Ariel, yeah, definitely. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:01
Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:02
Anybody have any comments or questions? No

Speaker 6  1:57:06
today, I just read there was a documentary about the water and the frequency of the water. And they were saying that in Venezuela, somewhere in a place in Venezuela, they have a water that, when they took it in Russia and they analyzed and it has like, 40 times more energy, 40,000 times more energy than the other water. So people, even though they don't need to eat like, like, we have to eat a lot of fruits and vegetables and all this. They can eat, like, much poor nutrition, but they have that water that it's it's healing. They get healed. They get their memory comes back. Everything it was, it is. Was very interesting. It was about two hours. I just saw it today, but I did not get to go all the video. I was in the taxi, and I was listening, but it was about the frequencies, the frequency of the water that they analyze. And they said that we drink sometimes water, and that water is that doesn't have any frequency. Something I actually, I sent the I sent the video to Dr Bill, because I had it. I sent to my children too, and I sent to some people I have there something to look into it.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:33
Okay, well, Jordan, don't, don't be a stranger. Okay, we've been here every Tuesday since October 2020, so the final we finally got around to finding you. So

Unknown Speaker  1:58:47
thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you

Bill Clearfield  1:58:50
so much. Thank you for what you do. Back to Mario. Any final thoughts here?

Speaker 4  1:58:55
No, this is just amazing, because I, myself was not in the know, even doctors out there, when you thought you knew everything, when you get into the photo bio modulation, you're just going to find out that they're not all the same. So I hope this lecture of Jordan kind of brought light to that, that stereotype that we need to see red light, that that was me. But now, of course, as you discuss this thoroughly, we have learned so many things from you, and thank you so much for that. Jordan, hopefully we we can have you back when you have new products again.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:26
Thank you. Okay, all right. Anybody else, any comments or questions? Dr halasi, you're unusually quiet tonight. No,

Speaker 8  1:59:36
I was talking. I asked a lot of questions. I bothered lots of people. I tease a lot of people here. But yeah, Jordan, expect an email from me to see if we can work together. Thank you. I'm interested in light there. Before long time.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:55
Okay, all right, everybody, thank you. Thank you. Dr Lawson, thank you. Dr Nario, thank you everybody for being here the new folks. Thank you. And just one quick program note, I am leaving tomorrow for San Francisco. I am speaking at the androgen society, and the President of the androgen society is Abraham Morgan, teller. So any, anybody who does anything but androgens knows that name. So we're moving up in the world. So I'm speaking.

Speaker 4  2:00:22
I'm going to plug myself too. I'm going to go to Hawaii. The end of July. We're going to be I'm going to be speaking in a conference. And again, conventional medical doctors are there. So if you if I don't go back, I guess you guys know where I am and

Bill Clearfield  2:00:38
put out to give out the tomatoes to throw at

Speaker 4  2:00:41
you, right? Well, I don't know if that's I wish that's the only thing I'm gonna get, but at least you know where my location if I'm not here after that event on Tuesdays, get some cops to get me out

Speaker 7  2:00:53
of visit. Dr Burgess, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:59
soon, yeah, he's probably got it. You probably have a say, yeah. So his wife lives there, Sylvia and and so. Dr Sylvia Cruz, go look her up. There's a safe house there for

Speaker 4  2:01:10
you. Yeah? Dr Burgess, if things go bad over

Speaker 1  2:01:13
there, as I tell my lecture, are you on Oahu or the Big Island

Speaker 4  2:01:17
a while? Yeah, and Waikiki, actually the Surf Rider

Unknown Speaker  2:01:21
they got you, bro,

Unknown Speaker  2:01:24
you're on my speed dial so,

Bill Clearfield  2:01:27
doctor, don't worry. We'll take we'll make sure you're safe.

Speaker 8  2:01:30
Do they agree with you or not androgen.

Speaker 4  2:01:33
They're they're actually, these are conventional dietary nephrologists, urologists, cardiologists, and they want me to present, what is integrative medicine? What is homeopathy? So they're curious cats, because I they know I'm in the fellowship. So I think that kind of added some credibility to to my on my end. So hopefully we can get some messages in their practices, and they actually can jump over the fence with us.

Speaker 1  2:01:59
I would I want to mention one more thing, because I've sent emails on an eight, 800 acre property in Hawaii that I will probably be seeing, and I was asking a bunch of you guys if you're interested in starting an international integrative center. I'll be there talking, but I don't I haven't had any response. So I don't know if you guys are getting my emails. They're not interested. Well, that's what I'm trying to find out. Emails, Bill,

Speaker 8  2:02:31
you bought the land. Is it belong to you? The land

Bill Clearfield  2:02:36
you want me to you want me to leave Reno to go to Hawaii. What are you crazy?

Speaker 1  2:02:39
I'm not okay. I'm just trying to help my friends. And I know I can help.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:47
I know we're just trying to, trying to, trying to, you know, did you bother? Bought

Speaker 1  2:02:54
this land? Does it belong to you? I don't have shit. I'm busted, but I sent the information to Shell. Shell will be our center. Man, right. Show,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:03
okay, great, got it.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:05
He shows the bag. Man, all right, we're doing all right. Don't take any of this seriously. Jordan,

Speaker 7  2:03:16
so no, we have a guy that has modular houses, and you can put them on one acres and construct them in a day or two. So that might be worth looking into. And it's a lot of fun, you guys.

Speaker 1  2:03:33
You guys tell me when you get offered 800 acres on a tropical island exclusively Hawaii, try to tell me when you're

Unknown Speaker  2:03:42
even what's in the 800 field there.

Speaker 1  2:03:47
It's a farm and one of the most beautiful houses that's ever been built. That could

Speaker 8  2:03:52
be could they give it to us? Or what is it? Is that free? We buy what

Speaker 1  2:03:57
we're trying to establish communication. I don't care. No, no. What's the deal? We need an International Center. We could do it here, and it would be as cheap as anywhere. Get in touch with me. I'll see you. Dr LASA,

Speaker 8  2:04:09
okay, I'll call you. I'll call you about after this. Yeah, about it?

Unknown Speaker  2:04:13
Oh, okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:15
there you go. All right, okay, everybody, that's the end of the high finance part of the of this meeting. So, all right, okay, everybody, I think we think it's time to go. Thank you again, George, for your time and your expertise, and thank you, Dr Burgess, for your comedy relief, among other things,

Speaker 1  2:04:38
I'm serious. I'm serious. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:43
oh. Dr Quinn, you got anything for us from the

Speaker 9  2:04:45
research group? Yeah, can you hear me? Okay, I've been having my problems here. Yeah, we hear you. Fine. Okay, just real fast, real real fast. We're moving forward on a couple of things with putting together a degree between Dr Tano Dr Anthony James for education in integrative indigenous medicines, kind of out of Dr James's facility in Florida, which is recognized by the state of Florida, which is one thing. Which is one thing. The other thing I want to point out to people is Doctor Tano and his expertise has put together a book with Doctor James on artificial intelligence, and it is called decoding AI basis in medicine. It's available on Amazon now. Last week, I think on Saturday, was number seven best seller. So again, that's decoding AI bias in medicine. So

Bill Clearfield  2:05:42
I thought it was bias, right?

Speaker 9  2:05:45
Yeah, yeah, what I say? You said basis. Oh, I'm sorry, bias. Oh, if I could read my own notes, I'd be we're

Speaker 7  2:05:53
lining them up as a speaker for Dr Clearfield, and we already have a couple dates, so yeah,

Speaker 9  2:05:59
that's right, we're trying to get Dr James to speak with the

Unknown Speaker  2:06:04
group here. He's a great speaker, by the way.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:08
So That's September 9 or September 30. Take your name, your

Speaker 7  2:06:13
poison. Okay, well, I let him know, so I gotta get him to call you and talk and everything. Okay, good. This was a good session. Very

Speaker 9  2:06:23
good session. Jordan, excellent. Thank you so much. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:26
Yeah. Thank you so much. Thank you. Okay, good night, everybody. Jordan, I will send you a participant list, so you can contact anybody for any offers or courses or anything. And also, I'll send you the video.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:42
Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:06:43
thank you so much. Thank you. Okay.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai